Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    AN ACT concerning government.


    Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois,

represented in the General Assembly:


                          Article 1.


    Section 1-1. Short title. This Act may be cited as the
Fiscal Year 2027 Budget Implementation Act.


    Section 1-5. Purpose. It is the purpose of this Act to make
changes in State programs that are necessary to implement the
State budget for Fiscal Year 2027.


                          Article 5.


    Section 5-2. The State Employees Group Insurance Act of
1971 is amended by changing Sections 6.5, 6.10, 10, 11, and
13.1 as follows:


    (5 ILCS 375/6.5)
    Sec. 6.5. Health benefits for TRS benefit recipients and
TRS dependent beneficiaries.
    (a) Purpose. It is the purpose of this amendatory Act of
1995 to transfer the administration of the program of health
benefits   established   for   benefit   recipients   and   their
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


dependent    beneficiaries      under    Article    16   of    the       Illinois
Pension Code to the Department of Central Management Services.
    (b) Transition provisions. The Board of Trustees of the
Teachers' Retirement System shall continue to administer the
health benefit program established under Article 16 of the
Illinois Pension Code through December 31, 1995. Beginning
January 1, 1996, the Department of Central Management Services
shall be responsible for administering a program of health
benefits     for    TRS    benefit     recipients      and    TRS    dependent
beneficiaries under this Section. The Department of Central
Management Services and the Teachers' Retirement System shall
cooperate    in     this    endeavor     and   shall     coordinate        their
activities     so    as    to   ensure     a   smooth        transition      and
uninterrupted health benefit coverage.
    (c) Eligibility. All persons who were enrolled in the
Article 16 program at the time of the transfer shall be
eligible to participate in the program established under this
Section without any interruption or delay in coverage or
limitation as to pre-existing medical conditions. Eligibility
to participate shall be determined by the Teachers' Retirement
System. Eligibility information shall be communicated to the
Department    of     Central    Management     Services        in    a    format
acceptable to the Department.
    Eligible TRS benefit recipients may enroll or re-enroll in
the program of health benefits established under this Section
during any applicable annual open enrollment period and as
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


otherwise permitted by the Department of Central Management
Services.      A     TRS   benefit    recipient         shall     not    be        deemed
ineligible to participate solely by reason of the TRS benefit
recipient having made a previous election to disenroll or
otherwise not participate in the program of health benefits.
      A TRS dependent beneficiary who is a child age 19 or over
and mentally or physically disabled does not become ineligible
to participate by reason of (i) becoming ineligible to be
claimed as a dependent for Illinois or federal income tax
purposes or (ii) receiving earned income, so long as those
earnings       are    insufficient        for    the     child      to       be    fully
self-sufficient.
      (d) Coverage. The level of health benefits provided under
this    Section      shall   be    similar      to   the    level       of    benefits
provided by the program previously established under Article
16 of the Illinois Pension Code. For plan years that begin on
or     after    January      1,   2025,    the       health      benefit          program
established under this Section shall include health, dental,
and vision benefits.
      Group life insurance benefits are not included in the
benefits to be provided to TRS benefit recipients and TRS
dependent beneficiaries under this Act.
      The program of health benefits under this Section may
include any or all of the benefit limitations, including but
not limited to a reduction in benefits based on eligibility
for    federal       Medicare     benefits,      that      are    provided         under
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


subsection (a) of Section 6 of this Act for other health
benefit programs under this Act.
     (e)   Insurance    rates   and   premiums.    The   Director   shall
determine the insurance rates and premiums for TRS benefit
recipients and TRS dependent beneficiaries, and shall present
to the Teachers' Retirement System of the State of Illinois,
by   April    15   of   each    calendar   year,     the   rate-setting
methodology (including but not limited to utilization levels
and costs) used to determine the amount of the health care
premiums.
           For Fiscal Year 1996, the premium shall be equal to
     the premium actually charged in Fiscal Year               1995; in
     subsequent years, the premium shall never be lower than
     the premium charged in Fiscal Year 1995.
           For Fiscal Year 2003, the premium shall not exceed
     110% of the premium actually charged in Fiscal Year 2002.
           For Fiscal Year 2004, the premium shall not exceed
     112% of the premium actually charged in Fiscal Year 2003.
           For Fiscal Year 2005, the premium shall not exceed a
     weighted average of 106.6% of the premium actually charged
     in Fiscal Year 2004.
           For Fiscal Year 2006, the premium shall not exceed a
     weighted average of 109.1% of the premium actually charged
     in Fiscal Year 2005.
           For Fiscal Year 2007, the premium shall not exceed a
     weighted average of 103.9% of the premium actually charged
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    in Fiscal Year 2006.
        For Fiscal Year 2008 and thereafter, the premium in
    each fiscal year shall not exceed 105% of the premium
    actually charged in the previous fiscal year.
    In addition to the premium amount charged for the program
of health benefits, in the initial plan year in which the
dental and vision benefits are provided, an additional premium
of not more than $7.11 per month for each TRS benefit recipient
and $28.43 per month for each TRS dependent beneficiary shall
be charged. The additional premium shall be used for the
purpose of financing the dental and vision benefits for TRS
benefit recipients and TRS dependent beneficiaries on and
after the effective date of this amendatory Act of the 103rd
General Assembly.
    Rates   and     premiums       may    be   based    in     part    on    age   and
eligibility for federal medicare coverage. However, the cost
of participation for a TRS dependent beneficiary who is an
unmarried child age 19 or over and mentally or physically
disabled    shall      not    exceed     the     cost   for    a    TRS     dependent
beneficiary    who     is     an   unmarried       child      under    age    19   and
participates      in    the    same      major    medical      or     managed      care
program.
    The cost of health benefits under the program shall be
paid as follows:
        (1) For a TRS benefit recipient selecting a managed
    care program, up to 75% of the total insurance rate shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    be paid from the Teacher Health Insurance Security Fund.
    Effective with Fiscal Year 2007 and thereafter, for a TRS
    benefit recipient selecting a managed care program, 75% of
    the total insurance rate shall be paid from the Teacher
    Health Insurance Security Fund.
         (2) For a TRS benefit recipient selecting the major
    medical coverage program, up to 50% of the total insurance
    rate shall be     paid from   the Teacher Health Insurance
    Security Fund if a managed care program is accessible, as
    determined by the Teachers' Retirement System. Effective
    with Fiscal Year 2007 and thereafter, for a TRS benefit
    recipient selecting the major medical coverage program,
    50% of the total insurance rate shall be paid from the
    Teacher Health Insurance Security Fund if a managed care
    program is accessible, as determined by the Department of
    Central Management Services.
         (3) For a TRS benefit recipient selecting the major
    medical coverage program, up to 75% of the total insurance
    rate shall be     paid from   the Teacher Health Insurance
    Security Fund if a managed care program is not accessible,
    as   determined   by   the    Teachers'   Retirement   System.
    Effective with Fiscal Year 2007 and thereafter, for a TRS
    benefit recipient selecting the major medical coverage
    program, 75% of the total insurance rate shall be paid
    from the Teacher Health Insurance Security Fund if a
    managed care program is not accessible, as determined by
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    the Department of Central Management Services.
        (3.1) For a TRS dependent beneficiary who is Medicare
    primary and enrolled in a managed care plan, or the major
    medical coverage program if a managed care plan is not
    available, 25% of the total insurance rate shall be paid
    from the Teacher Health Security Fund as determined by the
    Department of Central Management Services. For the purpose
    of this item (3.1), the term "TRS dependent beneficiary
    who is Medicare primary" means a TRS dependent beneficiary
    who is participating in Medicare Parts A and B.
        (4) Except as otherwise provided in item (3.1), the
    balance of the rate of insurance, including the entire
    premium of any coverage for TRS dependent beneficiaries
    that   has   been   elected,   shall   be   paid   by   deductions
    authorized by the TRS benefit recipient to be withheld
    from his or her monthly annuity or benefit payment from
    the Teachers' Retirement System; except that (i) if the
    balance of the cost of coverage exceeds the amount of the
    monthly annuity or benefit payment, the difference shall
    be paid directly to the Teachers' Retirement System by the
    TRS benefit recipient, and (ii) all or part of the balance
    of the cost of coverage may, at the school board's option,
    be paid to the Teachers' Retirement System by the school
    board of the school district from which the TRS benefit
    recipient retired, in accordance with Section 10-22.3b of
    the School Code. The Teachers' Retirement System shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    promptly deposit all moneys withheld by or paid to it
    under this subdivision (e)(4) into the Teacher Health
    Insurance     Security      Fund.     These     moneys      shall     not    be
    considered assets of the Retirement System.
          (5) If, for any month beginning on or after January 1,
    2013, a TRS benefit recipient or TRS dependent beneficiary
    was enrolled in Medicare Parts A and B and such Medicare
    coverage was primary to coverage under this Section but
    payment for coverage under this Section was made at a rate
    greater than the Medicare primary rate published by the
    Department of Central Management Services, the TRS benefit
    recipient or TRS dependent beneficiary shall be eligible
    for a refund equal to the difference between the amount
    paid    by   the   TRS     benefit    recipient      or     TRS     dependent
    beneficiary and the published Medicare primary rate. To
    receive a refund pursuant to this subsection, the TRS
    benefit      recipient     or   TRS    dependent      beneficiary           must
    provide      documentation      to    the     Department       of     Central
    Management Services evidencing the TRS benefit recipient's
    or TRS dependent beneficiary's Medicare coverage and the
    amount paid by the TRS benefit recipient or TRS dependent
    beneficiary during the applicable time period.
    (f)    Financing.     Beginning       July    1,    1995,    all    revenues
arising from the administration of the health benefit programs
established under Article 16 of the Illinois Pension Code or
this   Section    shall   be    deposited        into   the     Teacher    Health
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Insurance      Security    Fund,       which    is     hereby    created      as    a
nonappropriated     trust       fund    to     be   held     outside   the    State
treasury Treasury, with the State Treasurer as custodian. Any
interest earned on moneys in the Teacher Health Insurance
Security Fund shall be deposited into the Fund.
     Moneys in the Teacher Health Insurance Security Fund shall
be used only to pay the costs of the health benefit program
established      under      this       Section,        including       associated
administrative costs, and the costs associated with the health
benefit program established under Article 16 of the Illinois
Pension Code, as authorized in this Section. Beginning July 1,
1995, the Department of Central Management Services may make
expenditures from the Teacher Health Insurance Security Fund
for those costs.
     After other funds authorized for the payment of the costs
of the health benefit program established under Article 16 of
the Illinois Pension Code are exhausted and until January 1,
1996 (or such later date as may be agreed upon by the Director
of   Central    Management      Services        and    the    Secretary      of    the
Teachers' Retirement System), the Secretary of the Teachers'
Retirement     System     may   make    expenditures          from   the   Teacher
Health Insurance Security Fund as necessary to pay up to 75% of
the cost of providing health coverage to eligible benefit
recipients (as defined in Sections 16-153.1 and 16-153.3 of
the Illinois Pension Code) who are enrolled in the Article 16
health benefit program and to facilitate the transfer of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


administration of the health benefit program to the Department
of Central Management Services.
    The Department of Central Management Services, or any
successor agency designated to procure healthcare contracts
pursuant    to    this   Act,    is   authorized     to      establish        funds,
separate accounts provided by any bank or banks as defined by
the Illinois Banking Act, or separate accounts provided by any
savings and loan association or associations as defined by the
Illinois Savings and Loan Act of 1985 to be held by the
Director, outside the State treasury, for the purpose of
receiving the transfer of moneys from the Teacher Health
Insurance Security Fund. The Department may promulgate rules
further    defining      the    methodology    for     the      transfers.      Any
interest earned by moneys in the funds or accounts shall inure
to the Teacher Health Insurance Security Fund. The transferred
moneys,     and    interest      accrued      thereon,         shall     be    used
exclusively       for     transfers      to     administrative            service
organizations or their financial institutions for payments and
reconciliations       relating     to   of    claims      to    claimants       and
providers     under      the     self-insurance        health          plan.    The
transferred moneys, and interest accrued thereon, shall not be
used for any other purpose including, but not limited to,
reimbursement of administration fees due the administrative
service organization pursuant to its contract or contracts
with the Department.
    (g) Contract for benefits. The Director shall by contract,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


self-insurance, or otherwise make available the program of
health benefits for TRS benefit recipients and their TRS
dependent beneficiaries that is provided for in this Section.
The contract or other arrangement for the provision of these
health benefits shall be on terms deemed by the Director to be
in the best interest of the State of Illinois and the TRS
benefit recipients based on, but not limited to, such criteria
as administrative cost, service capabilities of the carrier or
other contractor, and the costs of the benefits.
      (g-5) Committee. A Teacher Retirement Insurance Program
Committee shall be established, to consist of 10 persons
appointed by the Governor.
      The Committee shall convene at least 4 times each year,
and    shall      consider      and   make    recommendations              on     issues
affecting the program of health benefits provided under this
Section. Recommendations of the Committee shall be based on a
consensus of the members of the Committee.
      If the Teacher Health Insurance Security Fund experiences
a deficit balance based upon the contribution and subsidy
rates established in this Section and Section 6.6 for Fiscal
Year       2008    or    thereafter,         the        Committee     shall         make
recommendations         for     adjustments        to     the     funding        sources
established under these Sections.
      In    addition,     the     Committee        shall        identify        proposed
solutions to the funding shortfalls that are affecting the
Teacher Health Insurance Security Fund, and it shall report
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


those solutions to the Governor and the General Assembly
within 6 months after August 15, 2011 (the effective date of
Public Act 97-386).
    (h) Continuation of program. It is the intention of the
General Assembly that the program of health benefits provided
under this Section be maintained on an ongoing, affordable
basis.
    The program of health benefits provided under this Section
may be amended by the State and is not intended to be a pension
or retirement benefit subject to protection under Article
XIII, Section 5 of the Illinois Constitution.
    (i) Repeal. (Blank).
(Source: P.A. 102-210, eff. 7-30-21; 103-588, eff. 6-5-24.)


    (5 ILCS 375/6.10)
    Sec. 6.10. Contributions to the Community College Health
Insurance Security Fund.
    (a) Beginning January 1, 1999 and through June 30, 2023,
every active contributor of the State Universities Retirement
System (established under Article 15 of the Illinois Pension
Code) who (1) is a full-time employee of a community college
district (other than a community college district subject to
Article   VII   of   the   Public   Community   College   Act)   or   an
association of community college boards and (2) is not an
employee as defined in Section 3 of this Act shall make
contributions toward the cost of community college annuitant
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


and survivor health benefits at the rate of 0.50% of salary.
Beginning    July     1,   2023   and    through    June   30,   2024,   the
contribution rate shall be 0.75% of salary. Beginning July 1,
2024 and through June 30, 2026, the contribution rate shall be
a percentage of salary to be determined by the Department of
Central Management Services, which in each fiscal year shall
not exceed a 0.1 percentage point increase in the amount of
salary actually required to be contributed for the previous
fiscal year. Beginning July 1, 2026, the contribution rate
shall be a percentage of salary to be determined by the
Department     of   Central   Management      Services,    which   in    each
fiscal year shall not exceed 105% of the percentage of salary
actually required to be contributed for the previous fiscal
year.
    These contributions shall be deducted by the employer and
paid to the State Universities Retirement System as service
agent for the Department of Central Management Services. The
System   may    use    the    same      processes   for    collecting    the
contributions required by this subsection that it uses to
collect the contributions received from those employees under
Section 15-157 of the Illinois Pension Code. An employer may
agree to pick up or pay the contributions required under this
subsection on behalf of the employee; such contributions shall
be deemed to have been paid by the employee.
    The State Universities Retirement System shall promptly
deposit all moneys collected under this subsection (a) into
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the Community College Health Insurance Security Fund created
in Section 6.9 of this Act. The moneys collected under this
Section shall be used only for the purposes authorized in
Section 6.9 of this Act and shall not be considered to be
assets     of    the     State      Universities         Retirement         System.
Contributions made under this Section are not transferable to
other     pension     funds    or   retirement       systems       and     are   not
refundable upon termination of service.
    (b) Beginning January 1, 1999 and through June 30, 2023,
every    community     college      district      (other    than    a    community
college    district      subject     to    Article       VII   of    the     Public
Community College Act) or association of community college
boards    that   is    an     employer    under    the     State    Universities
Retirement System shall contribute toward the cost of the
community college health benefits provided under Section 6.9
of this Act an amount equal to 0.50% of the salary paid to its
full-time employees who participate in the State Universities
Retirement System and are not members as defined in Section 3
of this Act. Beginning July 1, 2023 and through June 30, 2024,
the contribution rate shall be 0.75% of the salary. Beginning
July 1, 2024 and through June 30, 2026, the contribution rate
shall be a percentage of salary to be determined by the
Department      of   Central     Management       Services,    which       in    each
fiscal year shall not exceed a 0.1 percentage point increase
in the amount of salary actually required to be contributed
for the previous fiscal year. Beginning July 1, 2026, the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


contribution       rate   shall    be   a   percentage     of   salary    to    be
determined by the Department of Central Management Services,
which    in   each   fiscal      year   shall   not   exceed    105%     of    the
percentage of salary actually required to be contributed for
the previous fiscal year.
    These contributions shall be paid by the employer to the
State Universities Retirement System as service agent for the
Department of Central Management Services. The System may use
the same processes for collecting the contributions required
by this subsection that it uses to collect the contributions
received from those employers under Section 15-155 of the
Illinois Pension Code.
    The State Universities Retirement System shall promptly
deposit all moneys collected under this subsection (b) into
the Community College Health Insurance Security Fund created
in Section 6.9 of this Act. The moneys collected under this
Section shall be used only for the purposes authorized in
Section 6.9 of this Act and shall not be considered to be
assets     of      the    State     Universities       Retirement        System.
Contributions made under this Section are not transferable to
other    pension     funds    or    retirement       systems    and    are     not
refundable upon termination of service.
    The Department of Central Management Services, or any
successor agency designated to procure healthcare contracts
pursuant      to   this   Act,     is   authorized    to   establish      funds,
separate accounts provided by any bank or banks as defined by
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the Illinois Banking Act, or separate accounts provided by any
savings and loan association or associations as defined by the
Illinois Savings and Loan Act of 1985 to be held by the
Director, outside the State treasury, for the purpose of
receiving the transfer of moneys from the Community College
Health Insurance Security Fund. The Department may promulgate
rules further defining the methodology for the transfers. Any
interest earned by moneys in the funds or accounts shall inure
to the Community College Health Insurance Security Fund. The
transferred moneys, and interest accrued thereon, shall be
used   exclusively      for    transfers     to    administrative      service
organizations or their financial institutions for payments and
reconciliations        relating    to   of    claims      to    claimants    and
providers      under     the      self-insurance       health      plan.     The
transferred moneys, and interest accrued thereon, shall not be
used for any other purpose including, but not limited to,
reimbursement of administration fees due the administrative
service organization pursuant to its contract or contracts
with the Department.
    (c) On or before November 15 of each year, the Board of
Trustees of the State Universities Retirement System shall
certify to the Governor, the Director of Central Management
Services, and the State Comptroller its estimate of the total
amount of contributions to be paid under subsection (a) of
this Section for the next fiscal year. Beginning in fiscal
year   2008,    the     amount    certified       shall    be    decreased    or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


increased each year by the amount that the actual active
employee contributions either fell short of or exceeded the
estimate used by the Board in making the certification for the
previous fiscal year. The State Universities Retirement System
shall     calculate      the    amount    of      actual       active     employee
contributions in fiscal years 1999 through 2005. Based upon
this calculation, the fiscal year 2008 certification shall
include an amount equal to the cumulative amount that the
actual active employee contributions either fell short of or
exceeded     the    estimate     used    by     the    Board    in   making    the
certification for those fiscal years. The certification shall
include a detailed explanation of the methods and information
that the Board relied upon in preparing its estimate. As soon
as possible after the effective date of this Section, the
Board shall submit its estimate for fiscal year 1999.
      On or after the effective date of the changes made to this
Section by this amendatory Act of the 103rd General Assembly,
but no later than June 30, 2023, the Board shall recalculate
and   recertify     to    the   Governor,       the     Director     of   Central
Management Services, and the State Comptroller its estimate of
the total amount of contributions to be paid under subsection
(a)   for   State    fiscal     year    2024,    taking     into     account   the
changes     in   required      employee    contributions         made     by   this
amendatory Act of the 103rd General Assembly.
      (d) Beginning in fiscal year 1999, on the first day of each
month, or as soon thereafter as may be practical, the State
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Treasurer and the State Comptroller shall transfer from the
General Revenue Fund to the Community College Health Insurance
Security Fund 1/12 of the annual amount appropriated for that
fiscal year to the State Comptroller for deposit into the
Community College Health Insurance Security Fund under Section
1.4 of the State Pension Funds Continuing Appropriation Act.
    (e) Except where otherwise specified in this Section, the
definitions that apply to Article 15 of the Illinois Pension
Code apply to this Section.
(Source: P.A. 103-8, eff. 6-7-23.)


    (5 ILCS 375/10) (from Ch. 127, par. 530)
    Sec. 10. Contributions by the State and members.
    (a) The State shall pay the cost of basic non-contributory
group life insurance and, subject to member paid contributions
set by the Department or required by this Section and except as
provided in this Section, the basic program of group health
benefits     on   each   eligible     member,    except     a    member,       not
otherwise     covered    by    this   Act,      who   has   retired       as    a
participating member under Article 2 of the Illinois Pension
Code   but   is   ineligible    for    the   retirement         annuity   under
Section 2-119 of the Illinois Pension Code, and part of each
eligible member's and retired member's premiums for health
insurance coverage for enrolled dependents as provided by
Section 9. The State shall pay the cost of the basic program of
group health benefits only after benefits are reduced by the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


amount of benefits covered by Medicare for all members and
dependents who are eligible for benefits under Social Security
or   the   Railroad    Retirement    system      or    who   had    sufficient
Medicare-covered       government    employment,        except      that   such
reduction in benefits shall apply only to those members and
dependents who (1) first become eligible for such Medicare
coverage     on   or       after    July    1,     1992;       or    (2)   are
Medicare-eligible members or dependents of a local government
unit which began participation in the program on or after July
1, 1992; or (3) remain eligible for, but no longer receive
Medicare coverage which they had been receiving on or after
July 1, 1992. The Department may determine the aggregate level
of the State's contribution on the basis of actual cost of
medical services adjusted for age, sex or geographic or other
demographic characteristics which affect the costs of such
programs.
     The cost of participation in the basic program of group
health benefits for the dependent or survivor of a living or
deceased retired employee who was formerly employed by the
University of Illinois in the Cooperative Extension Service
and would be an annuitant but for the fact that he or she was
made   ineligible     to   participate     in    the   State     Universities
Retirement System by clause (4) of subsection (a) of Section
15-107 of the Illinois Pension Code shall not be greater than
the cost of participation that would otherwise apply to that
dependent or survivor if he or she were the dependent or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


survivor       of    an   annuitant     under     the   State     Universities
Retirement System.
      (a-1) (Blank).
      (a-2) (Blank).
      (a-3) (Blank).
      (a-4) (Blank).
      (a-5) (Blank).
      (a-6) (Blank).
      (a-7) (Blank).
      (a-8) Any annuitant, survivor, or retired employee may
waive or terminate coverage in the program of group health
benefits. Any such annuitant, survivor, or retired employee
who has waived or terminated coverage may enroll or re-enroll
in the program of group health benefits only during the annual
benefit choice period, as determined by the Director; except
that in the event of termination of coverage due to nonpayment
of premiums, the annuitant, survivor, or retired employee may
not re-enroll in the program.
      (a-8.5) Beginning on July 1, 2012 (the effective date of
Public      Act     97-695),   the     Director    of   Central       Management
Services shall, on an annual basis, determine the amount that
the State shall contribute toward the basic program of group
health benefits on behalf of annuitants (including individuals
who   (i)    participated      in     the   General     Assembly      Retirement
System, the State Employees' Retirement System of Illinois,
the    State      Universities       Retirement    System,      the    Teachers'
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Retirement System of the State of Illinois, or the Judges
Retirement System of Illinois and (ii) qualify as annuitants
under subsection (b) of Section 3 of this Act), survivors
(including       individuals      who   (i)    receive   an    annuity     as   a
survivor of an individual who participated in the General
Assembly Retirement System, the State Employees' Retirement
System of Illinois, the State Universities Retirement System,
the Teachers' Retirement System of the State of Illinois, or
the Judges Retirement System of Illinois and (ii) qualify as
survivors under subsection (q) of Section 3 of this Act), and
retired employees (as defined in subsection (p) of Section 3
of this Act). The remainder of the cost of coverage for each
annuitant, survivor, or retired employee, as determined by the
Director     of    Central     Management       Services,     shall   be    the
responsibility       of    that    annuitant,      survivor,     or   retired
employee.
    Contributions         required      of    annuitants,     survivors,    and
retired employees shall be the same for all retirement systems
and shall also be based on whether an individual has made an
election under Section 15-135.1 of the Illinois Pension Code.
Contributions may be based on annuitants', survivors', or
retired employees' Medicare eligibility, but may not be based
on Social Security eligibility.
    (a-9) No later than May 1 of each calendar year, the
Director    of    Central    Management       Services   shall    certify       in
writing to the Executive Secretary of the State Employees'
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Retirement System of Illinois the amounts of the Medicare
supplement health care premiums and the amounts of the health
care premiums for all other retirees who are not Medicare
eligible.
    A separate calculation of the premiums based upon the
actual cost of each health care plan shall be so certified.
    The Director of Central Management Services shall provide
to the Executive Secretary of the State Employees' Retirement
System of Illinois such information, statistics, and other
data as he or she may require to review the premium amounts
certified by the Director of Central Management Services.
    The Department of Central Management Services, or any
successor agency designated to procure health care contracts
pursuant    to   this   Act,    is   authorized   to   establish    funds,
separate accounts provided by any bank or banks as defined by
the Illinois Banking Act, or separate accounts provided by any
savings and loan association or associations as defined by the
Illinois Savings and Loan Act of 1985 to be held by the
Director, outside the State treasury, for the purpose of
receiving the transfer of moneys from the Local Government
Health Insurance Reserve Fund. The Department may promulgate
rules further defining the methodology for the transfers. Any
interest earned by moneys in the funds or accounts shall inure
to the Local Government Health Insurance Reserve Fund. The
transferred moneys, and interest accrued thereon, shall be
used   exclusively      for    transfers   to   administrative     service
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


organizations or their financial institutions for payments and
reconciliations     relating    to   of   claims    to   claimants   and
providers   under     the      self-insurance      health   plan.    The
transferred moneys, and interest accrued thereon, shall not be
used for any other purpose including, but not limited to,
reimbursement of administration fees due the administrative
service organization pursuant to its contract or contracts
with the Department.
    (a-10) To the extent that participation, benefits, or
premiums under this Act are based on a person's service credit
under an Article of the Illinois Pension Code, service credit
terminated in exchange for an accelerated pension benefit
payment under Section 14-147.5, 15-185.5, or 16-190.5 of that
Code shall be included in determining a person's service
credit for the purposes of this Act.
    (b) State employees who become eligible for this program
on or after January 1, 1980 in positions normally requiring
actual performance of duty not less than 1/2 of a normal work
period but not equal to that of a normal work period, shall be
given the option of participating in the available program. If
the employee elects coverage, the State shall contribute on
behalf of such employee to the cost of the employee's benefit
and any applicable dependent supplement, that sum which bears
the same percentage as that percentage of time the employee
regularly works when compared to normal work period.
    (c) The basic non-contributory coverage from the basic
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


program of group health benefits shall be continued for each
employee not in pay status or on active service by reason of
(1) leave of absence due to illness or injury, (2) authorized
educational leave of absence or sabbatical leave, or (3)
military leave. This coverage shall continue until expiration
of authorized leave and return to active service, but not to
exceed 24 months for leaves under item (1) or (2). This
24-month limitation and the requirement of returning to active
service shall not apply to persons receiving ordinary or
accidental disability benefits or retirement benefits through
the appropriate State retirement system or benefits under the
Workers'    Compensation        Act   or     the    Workers'   Occupational
Diseases Act.
    (d)    The   basic    group       life    insurance    coverage   shall
continue, with full State contribution, where such person is
(1) absent from active service by reason of disability arising
from any cause other than self-inflicted, (2) on authorized
educational leave of absence or sabbatical leave, or (3) on
military leave.
    (e) Where the person is in non-pay status for a period in
excess of 30 days or on leave of absence, other than by reason
of disability, educational or sabbatical leave, or military
leave,    such   person   may    continue      coverage   only   by   making
personal payment equal to the amount normally contributed by
the State on such person's behalf. Such payments and coverage
may be continued: (1) until such time as the person returns to
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


a status eligible for coverage at State expense, but not to
exceed 24 months or (2) until such person's employment or
annuitant status with the State is terminated (exclusive of
any additional service imposed pursuant to law).
    (f) The Department shall establish by rule the extent to
which other employee benefits will continue for persons in
non-pay status or who are not in active service.
    (g)    The   State    shall       not    pay    the     cost    of    the    basic
non-contributory        group       life    insurance,      program       of    health
benefits and other employee benefits for members who are
survivors as defined by paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection
(q) of Section 3 of this Act. The costs of benefits for these
survivors shall be paid by the survivors or by the University
of Illinois Cooperative Extension Service, or any combination
thereof.   However,      the    State       shall   pay     the    amount       of   the
reduction in the cost of participation, if any, resulting from
the amendment to subsection (a) made by Public Act 91-617.
    (h) Those persons occupying positions with any department
as a result of emergency appointments pursuant to Section 8b.8
of the Personnel Code who are not considered employees under
this Act shall be given the option of participating in the
programs of group life insurance, health benefits and other
employee    benefits.         Such     persons      electing        coverage         may
participate      only    by    making       payment    equal       to    the    amount
normally   contributed         by    the    State     for   similarly       situated
employees. Such amounts shall be determined by the Director.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Such payments and coverage may be continued until such time as
the person becomes an employee pursuant to this Act or such
person's appointment is terminated.
      (i) Any unit of local government within the State of
Illinois may apply to the Director to have its employees,
annuitants,      and    their       dependents      provided      group      health
coverage     under      this    Act    on     a     non-insured       basis.       To
participate, a unit of local government must agree to enroll
all of its employees, who may select coverage under any group
health benefits plan made available by the Department under
the health benefits program established under this Section or
a health maintenance organization that has contracted with the
State to be available as a health care provider for employees
as defined in this Act. A unit of local government must remit
the    entire    cost   of     providing     coverage         under   the    health
benefits   program      established         under      this    Section      or,   for
coverage under a health maintenance organization, an amount
determined by the Director based on an analysis of the sex,
age,    geographic      location,      or    other      relevant      demographic
variables for its employees, except that the unit of local
government      shall   not    be    required     to    enroll    those      of   its
employees who are covered spouses or dependents under the
State group health benefits plan or another group policy or
plan providing health benefits as long as (1) an appropriate
official from the unit of local government attests that each
employee not enrolled is a covered spouse or dependent under
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


this plan or another group policy or plan, and (2) at least 50%
of the employees are enrolled and the unit of local government
remits   the    entire    cost    of    providing     coverage    to     those
employees, except that a participating school district must
have enrolled at least 50% of its full-time employees who have
not waived coverage under the district's group health plan by
participating in a component of the district's cafeteria plan.
A participating school district is not required to enroll a
full-time      employee   who     has     waived    coverage     under    the
district's health plan, provided that an appropriate official
from   the   participating       school    district    attests    that    the
full-time employee has waived coverage by participating in a
component of the district's cafeteria plan. For the purposes
of this subsection, "participating school district" includes a
unit of local government whose primary purpose is education as
defined by the Department's rules.
    Employees of a participating unit of local government who
are not enrolled due to coverage under another group health
policy or plan may enroll in the event of a qualifying change
in status, special enrollment, special circumstance as defined
by the Director, or during the annual benefit choice period. A
participating unit of local government may also elect to cover
its annuitants. Dependent coverage shall be offered on an
optional basis, with the costs paid by the unit of local
government, its employees, or some combination of the two as
determined by the unit of local government. The unit of local
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


government shall be responsible for timely collection and
transmission of dependent premiums.
    The Director shall annually determine monthly rates of
payment, subject to the following constraints:
          (1) In the first year of coverage, the rates shall be
    equal to the amount normally charged to State employees
    for elected optional coverages or for enrolled dependents
    coverages or other contributory coverages, or contributed
    by the State for basic insurance coverages on behalf of
    its    employees,    adjusted       for   differences      between     State
    employees and employees of the local government in age,
    sex, geographic location or other relevant demographic
    variables,    plus      an   amount    sufficient     to    pay    for   the
    additional administrative costs of providing coverage to
    employees    of   the    unit   of     local    government     and     their
    dependents.
          (2) In subsequent years, a further adjustment shall be
    made to reflect the actual prior years' claims experience
    of the employees of the unit of local government.
    In the case of coverage of local government employees
under a health maintenance organization, the Director shall
annually    determine    for     each     participating     unit      of   local
government the maximum monthly amount the unit may contribute
toward that coverage, based on an analysis of (i) the age, sex,
geographic location, and other relevant demographic variables
of the unit's employees and (ii) the cost to cover those
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


employees under the State group health benefits plan. The
Director may similarly determine the maximum monthly amount
each unit of local government may contribute toward coverage
of   its    employees'        dependents        under    a   health    maintenance
organization.
     Monthly payments by the unit of local government or its
employees for group health benefits plan or health maintenance
organization        coverage       shall    be    deposited     into     the    Local
Government Health Insurance Reserve Fund.
     The Local Government Health Insurance Reserve Fund is
hereby created as a nonappropriated trust fund to be held
outside     the     State     treasury,     with     the     State    Treasurer    as
custodian. The Local Government Health Insurance Reserve Fund
shall      be   a   continuing       fund   not     subject     to     fiscal    year
limitations. The Local Government Health Insurance Reserve
Fund is not subject to administrative charges or charge-backs,
including, but not limited to, those authorized under Section
8h of the State Finance Act. All revenues arising from the
administration        of    the    health       benefits     program   established
under      this     Section       shall    be    deposited      into    the     Local
Government Health Insurance Reserve Fund. Any interest earned
on moneys in the Local Government Health Insurance Reserve
Fund shall be deposited into the Fund. All expenditures from
this Fund shall be used for payments for health care benefits
for local government and rehabilitation facility employees,
annuitants, and dependents, and to reimburse the Department or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


its    administrative         service     organization     for    all     expenses
incurred in the administration of benefits. No other State
funds may be used for these purposes.
      A local government employer's participation or desire to
participate in a program created under this subsection shall
not    limit      that       employer's     duty     to   bargain       with    the
representative          of   any    collective     bargaining      unit    of   its
employees.
      (j)   Any   rehabilitation          facility    within      the   State     of
Illinois may apply to the Director to have its employees,
annuitants,       and    their     eligible    dependents        provided      group
health coverage under this Act on a non-insured basis. To
participate, a rehabilitation facility must agree to enroll
all of its employees and remit the entire cost of providing
such     coverage        for       its    employees,      except        that    the
rehabilitation facility shall not be required to enroll those
of its employees who are covered spouses or dependents under
this plan or another group policy or plan providing health
benefits as long as (1) an appropriate official from the
rehabilitation          facility     attests       that   each    employee      not
enrolled is a covered spouse or dependent under this plan or
another group policy or plan, and (2) at least 50% of the
employees are enrolled and the rehabilitation facility remits
the entire cost of providing coverage to those employees.
Employees of a participating rehabilitation facility who are
not enrolled due to coverage under another group health policy
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


or plan may enroll in the event of a qualifying change in
status, special enrollment, special circumstance as defined by
the Director, or during the annual benefit choice period. A
participating rehabilitation facility may also elect to cover
its annuitants. Dependent coverage shall be offered on an
optional basis, with the costs paid by the rehabilitation
facility, its employees, or some combination of the 2 as
determined by the rehabilitation facility. The rehabilitation
facility    shall   be   responsible   for    timely   collection   and
transmission of dependent premiums.
    The Director shall annually determine quarterly rates of
payment, subject to the following constraints:
          (1) In the first year of coverage, the rates shall be
    equal to the amount normally charged to State employees
    for elected optional coverages or for enrolled dependents
    coverages or other contributory coverages on behalf of its
    employees,      adjusted    for    differences       between   State
    employees and employees of the rehabilitation facility in
    age,    sex,    geographic     location     or     other    relevant
    demographic variables, plus an amount sufficient to pay
    for    the   additional    administrative    costs    of   providing
    coverage to employees of the rehabilitation facility and
    their dependents.
          (2) In subsequent years, a further adjustment shall be
    made to reflect the actual prior years' claims experience
    of the employees of the rehabilitation facility.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Monthly payments by the rehabilitation facility or its
employees for group health benefits shall be deposited into
the Local Government Health Insurance Reserve Fund.
    (k) Any domestic violence shelter or service within the
State of Illinois may apply to the Director to have its
employees, annuitants, and their dependents provided group
health coverage under this Act on a non-insured basis. To
participate, a domestic violence shelter or service must agree
to enroll all of its employees and pay the entire cost of
providing   such   coverage   for   its   employees.    The   domestic
violence shelter shall not be required to enroll those of its
employees who are covered spouses or dependents under this
plan or another group policy or plan providing health benefits
as long as (1) an appropriate official from the domestic
violence shelter attests that each employee not enrolled is a
covered spouse or dependent under this plan or another group
policy or plan and (2) at least 50% of the employees are
enrolled and the domestic violence shelter remits the entire
cost of providing coverage to those employees. Employees of a
participating domestic violence shelter who are not enrolled
due to coverage under another group health policy or plan may
enroll in the event of a qualifying change in status, special
enrollment, or special circumstance as defined by the Director
or during the annual benefit choice period. A participating
domestic    violence   shelter   may   also   elect    to   cover   its
annuitants. Dependent coverage shall be offered on an optional
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


basis,    with    employees,         or   some   combination    of    the   2   as
determined by the domestic violence shelter or service. The
domestic violence shelter or service shall be responsible for
timely collection and transmission of dependent premiums.
    The Director shall annually determine rates of payment,
subject to the following constraints:
          (1) In the first year of coverage, the rates shall be
    equal to the amount normally charged to State employees
    for elected optional coverages or for enrolled dependents
    coverages or other contributory coverages on behalf of its
    employees,          adjusted      for    differences       between      State
    employees and employees of the domestic violence shelter
    or service in          age, sex,        geographic location or other
    relevant demographic variables, plus an amount sufficient
    to    pay     for     the    additional      administrative       costs     of
    providing coverage to employees of the domestic violence
    shelter or service and their dependents.
          (2) In subsequent years, a further adjustment shall be
    made to reflect the actual prior years' claims experience
    of the employees of               the domestic violence shelter or
    service.
    Monthly      payments       by   the    domestic   violence      shelter    or
service or its employees for group health insurance shall be
deposited into the Local Government Health Insurance Reserve
Fund.
    (l)    A     public    community        college    or   entity    organized
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


pursuant to the Public Community College Act may apply to the
Director initially to have only annuitants not covered prior
to July 1, 1992 by the district's health plan provided health
coverage under this Act on a non-insured basis. The community
college must execute a 2-year contract to participate in the
Local Government Health Plan. Any annuitant may enroll in the
event of a qualifying change in status, special enrollment,
special circumstance as defined by the Director, or during the
annual benefit choice period.
    The Director shall annually determine monthly rates of
payment    subject    to     the   following   constraints:    for   those
community colleges with annuitants only enrolled, first year
rates shall be equal to the average cost to cover claims for a
State      member     adjusted        for      demographics,      Medicare
participation, and other factors; and in the second year, a
further adjustment of rates shall be made to reflect the
actual     first    year's     claims   experience     of   the   covered
annuitants.
    (l-5) The provisions of subsection (l) become inoperative
on July 1, 1999.
    (m) The Director shall adopt any rules deemed necessary
for implementation of this amendatory Act of 1989 (Public Act
86-978).
    (n) Any child advocacy center within the State of Illinois
may apply to the Director to have its employees, annuitants,
and their dependents provided group health coverage under this
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Act on a non-insured basis. To participate, a child advocacy
center must agree to enroll all of its employees and pay the
entire cost of providing coverage for its employees. The child
advocacy center shall not be required to enroll those of its
employees who are covered spouses or dependents under this
plan or another group policy or plan providing health benefits
as long as (1) an appropriate official from the child advocacy
center attests that each employee not enrolled is a covered
spouse or dependent under this plan or another group policy or
plan and (2) at least 50% of the employees are enrolled and the
child advocacy center remits the entire cost of providing
coverage to those employees. Employees of a participating
child advocacy center who are not enrolled due to coverage
under another group health policy or plan may enroll in the
event of a qualifying change in status, special enrollment, or
special circumstance as defined by the Director or during the
annual benefit choice period. A participating child advocacy
center may also elect to cover its annuitants. Dependent
coverage shall be offered on an optional basis, with the costs
paid by the child advocacy center, its employees, or some
combination of the 2 as determined by the child advocacy
center. The child advocacy center shall be responsible for
timely collection and transmission of dependent premiums.
    The Director shall annually determine rates of payment,
subject to the following constraints:
        (1) In the first year of coverage, the rates shall be
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    equal to the amount normally charged to State employees
    for elected optional coverages or for enrolled dependents
    coverages or other contributory coverages on behalf of its
    employees,     adjusted      for   differences     between   State
    employees and employees of the child advocacy center in
    age,    sex,    geographic     location,   or    other    relevant
    demographic variables, plus an amount sufficient to pay
    for    the   additional   administrative   costs    of   providing
    coverage to employees of the child advocacy center and
    their dependents.
          (2) In subsequent years, a further adjustment shall be
    made to reflect the actual prior years' claims experience
    of the employees of the child advocacy center.
    Monthly payments by       the child advocacy center or its
employees for group health insurance shall be deposited into
the Local Government Health Insurance Reserve Fund.
(Source: P.A. 104-417, eff. 8-15-25.)


    (5 ILCS 375/11) (from Ch. 127, par. 531)
    Sec. 11. The amount of contribution in any fiscal year
from funds other than the General Revenue Fund or the Road Fund
shall be at the same contribution rate as the General Revenue
Fund or the Road Fund. Contributions and payments for life
insurance shall be deposited into in the Group Insurance
Premium Fund. Contributions and payments for health coverages
and other benefits shall be deposited into in the Health
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Insurance Reserve Fund. Federal funds which are available for
cooperative extension purposes shall also be charged for the
contributions which are made for retired employees formerly
employed in the Cooperative Extension Service. In the case of
departments or any division thereof receiving a fraction of
its     requirements      for     administration       from        the    Federal
Government, the contributions hereunder shall be such fraction
of the amount determined under the provisions hereof and the
remainder shall be contributed by the State.
      Every department which has members paid from funds other
than    the    General    Revenue    Fund    shall    cooperate          with   the
Department of Central Management Services and the Governor's
Office of Management and Budget in order to assure that the
specified      proportion    of   the     State's    cost    for    group       life
insurance, the program of health benefits and other employee
benefits is paid by such funds; except that contributions
under this Act need not be paid from any other fund where both
the Director of Central Management Services and the Director
of    the   Governor's     Office    of    Management       and    Budget       have
designated in writing that the necessary contributions are
included in the General Revenue Fund contribution amount.
      The   Illinois     Mathematics      and   Science      Academy       is   not
required to submit the contributions described in this Section
for employees who are compensated out of the IMSA Income Fund.
If an employee is partially compensated from the IMSA Income
Fund,    the   Illinois     Mathematics     and     Science       Academy   shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


submit   a   pro   rata    contribution          for    the      portion     of   the
employee's compensation that is derived from other funds,
apart from State general funds as defined in Section 50-40 of
the State Budget Law.
    Universities having employees who are compensated out of
the following funds or sources are not required to submit the
contribution described in this Section for such employees:
         (1)   income     funds,    as   described          in    Sections       6a-1,
    6a-1a, 6a-1b, 6a-1c, 6a-1d, 6a-1e, 6a-1f, 6a-1g, and 6d of
    the State Finance Act, including tuition, laboratory, and
    library fees and any interest earned on those fees;
         (2)     local    auxiliary      funds,        as   described       in    the
    Legislative Audit Commission's University Guidelines, as
    published on November 17, 2020, including the following:
               (i) funds from auxiliary enterprises, which are
         operations that support the overall objectives of the
         university       but      are     not     directly             related     to
         instruction,       research,      or      service            organizational
         units;
               (ii) funds from auxiliary activities, which are
         functions that are self-supporting, in whole or in
         part,     and    are   directly         related         to    instruction,
         research, or service units;
         (3) the Agricultural Premium Fund as established by
    Section 5.01 of the State Finance Act;
         (4)   appropriations       from    the        General        Revenue    Fund,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Education Assistance Fund, or other State appropriations
    that are made for the purposes of instruction, research,
    public service, or economic development;
         (5) funds to the University of Illinois Hospital for
    health care professional services that are performed by
    University of Illinois faculty or University of Illinois
    health care programs established under the University of
    Illinois Hospital Act; or
         (6) funds designated for the Cooperative Extension
    Service, as defined in Section 3 of the County Cooperative
    Extension Law.
    If an employee of a university is partially compensated
from the funds or sources of funds identified in paragraphs
(1) through (6) above, universities shall be required to
submit   a   pro   rata   contribution      for   the    portion     of     the
employee's   compensation     that   is     derived     out   of    funds    or
sources other than those identified in paragraphs (1) through
(6) above.
    The Department of Central Management Services may conduct
a post-payment review of university reimbursements to assess
or address any discrepancies. Universities shall cooperate
with the Department of Central Management Services during any
post-payment review, that may require universities to provide
documentation      to   support   payment    calculations      or    funding
sources used for calculating reimbursements. The Department of
Central Management Services reserves the right to reconcile
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


any    discrepancies         in    reimbursement          subtotals       or    total
obligations         and    to     notify     universities          of    all    final
reconciliations, which shall include the Department of Central
Management Services calculations and the amount of any credits
or obligations that may be due.
      For each employee of the Illinois Toll Highway Authority
covered under this Act whose eligibility for such coverage is
as an annuitant, the Authority shall annually contribute an
amount, as determined by the Director of the Department of
Central      Management      Services,       that    represents         the    average
employer's      share       of    the   cost    of       retiree    coverage      per
participating employee in the State Employees Group Insurance
Program.
(Source: P.A. 102-1071, eff. 6-10-22; 102-1115, eff. 1-9-23;
103-616, eff. 7-1-24.)


      (5 ILCS 375/13.1) (from Ch. 127, par. 533.1)
      Sec.    13.1.        (a)    All      contributions,          appropriations,
interest, and dividend payments to fund the program of health
benefits and other employee benefits, and all other revenues
arising      from    the    administration          of    any   employee        health
benefits program, shall be deposited into in a trust fund
outside the State treasury Treasury, with the State Treasurer
as ex officio ex-officio custodian, to be known as the Health
Insurance Reserve Fund.
      (b) Upon the adoption of a self-insurance health plan, any
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


monies attributable to the group health insurance program
shall   be   deposited   into    in   or    transferred   to    the    Health
Insurance Reserve Fund for use by the Department. As of the
effective date of this amendatory Act of 1986, the Department
shall certify to the Comptroller the amount of money in the
Group Insurance Premium Fund attributable to the State group
health insurance program and the Comptroller shall transfer
such money from the Group Insurance Premium Fund to the Health
Insurance Reserve Fund. Contributions by the State to the
Health Insurance Reserve Fund to meet the requirements of this
Act, as established by the Director, from the General Revenue
Fund and the Road Fund to the Health Insurance Reserve Fund
shall be by annual appropriations, and all other contributions
to meet the requirements of the programs of health benefits or
other employee benefits shall be deposited into in the Health
Insurance     Reserve    Fund.   The       Department   shall    draw    the
appropriation from the General Revenue Fund and the Road Fund
from time to time as necessary to make expenditures authorized
under this Act.
    The Director may employ such assistance and services and
may purchase such goods as may be necessary for the proper
development and administration of any of the benefit programs
authorized by this Act. The Director may promulgate rules and
regulations in regard to the administration of these programs.
    All monies received by the Department for deposit in or
transfer     to   the   Health   Insurance      Reserve   Fund,       through
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


appropriation or otherwise, shall be used to provide for the
making of payments to claimants and providers and to reimburse
the Department for all expenses directly incurred relating to
Department development and administration of the program of
health benefits and other employee benefits.
      Any administrative service organization administering any
self-insurance health plan and paying claims and benefits
under authority of this Act may receive, pursuant to written
authorization       and    direction    of     the    Director,   an    initial
transfer and periodic transfers of funds from the Health
Insurance Reserve Fund in amounts determined by the Director
who may consider the amount recommended by the administrative
service organization. Notwithstanding any other statute, such
transferred funds shall be retained by the administrative
service organization in a separate account provided by any
bank as defined by the Illinois Banking Act. The Department
may     promulgate     regulations      further        defining   the    banks
authorized     to    accept   such     funds    and    all   methodology   for
transfer of such funds. Any interest earned by monies in such
account shall inure to the Health Insurance Reserve Fund,
shall remain in such account and shall be used exclusively to
pay claims and benefits under this Act. Such transferred funds
shall     be   used       exclusively     for        administrative     service
organization payment of claims to claimants and providers
under the self-insurance health plan by the drawing of checks
against such account. The administrative service organization
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


may   not   use    such     transferred         funds,    or    interest      accrued
thereon, for any other purpose including, but not limited to,
reimbursement       of     administrative            expenses    or    payments      of
administration       fees    due    the       organization      pursuant       to   its
contract     or     contracts       with       the     Department       of    Central
Management Services.
      The account of the administrative service organization
established under this Section, any transfers from the Health
Insurance Reserve Fund to such account and the use of such
account     and    funds    shall   be        subject    to    (1)    audit    by   the
Department or private contractor authorized by the Department
to conduct audits, and (2) post audit pursuant to the Illinois
State Auditing Act.
      The Department of Central Management Services, or any
successor agency designated to procure healthcare contracts
pursuant     to    this    Act,    is    authorized       to    establish      funds,
separate accounts provided by any bank or banks as defined by
the Illinois Banking Act, or separate accounts provided by any
savings and loan association or associations as defined by the
Illinois Savings and Loan Act of 1985 to be held by the
Director, outside the State treasury, for the purpose of
receiving the transfer of moneys from the Health Insurance
Reserve Fund. The Department may promulgate rules further
defining     the    methodology         for    the    transfers.      Any     interest
earned by monies in the funds or accounts shall inure to the
Health Insurance Reserve Fund. The transferred moneys, and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


interest    accrued    thereon,         shall   be    used     exclusively       for
transfers to administrative service organizations or their
financial     institutions        for     payments      and    reconciliations
relating to of claims to claimants and providers under the
self-insurance     health        plan.    The   transferred        moneys,       and
interest accrued thereon, shall not be used for any other
purpose    including,      but    not    limited      to,     reimbursement       of
administration        fees       due      the    administrative            service
organization pursuant to its contract or contracts with the
Department.
    (c) The Director, with the advice and consent of the
Commission, shall establish premiums for optional coverage for
dependents of eligible members for the health plans. The
eligible members shall be responsible for their portion of
such optional premium. The State shall contribute an amount
per month for each eligible member who has enrolled one or more
dependents under the health plans. Such contribution shall be
made directly to the Health Insurance Reserve Fund. Those
employees described in subsection (b) of Section 9 of this Act
shall be allowed to continue in the health plan by making
personal payments with the premiums to be deposited into in
the Health Insurance Reserve Fund.
    (d)     The   Health     Insurance      Reserve         Fund   shall    be    a
continuing fund not subject to fiscal year limitations. All
expenditures from that fund shall be at the direction of the
Director and shall be only for the purpose of:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


          (1) the payment of administrative expenses incurred by
    the Department for the program of health benefits or other
    employee benefit programs, including but not limited to
    the    costs    of    audits      or    actuarial      consultations,
    professional and contractual services, electronic data
    processing     systems      and   services,      and    expenses   in
    connection with the development and administration of such
    programs;
          (2) the payment of administrative expenses incurred by
    an Administrative Service Organization;
          (3) the payment of health benefits;
          (3.5) the payment of medical expenses incurred by the
    Department     for   the    treatment   of    employees   who   suffer
    accidental injury or         death within the scope of their
    employment;
          (4) refunds to employees for erroneous payments of
    their selected health insurance coverage;
          (5) payment of premium for stop-loss or re-insurance;
          (6)   payment    of     premium    to    health     maintenance
    organizations pursuant to Section 6.1 of this Act;
          (7) payment of adoption program benefits; and
          (8) payment of other benefits offered to members and
    dependents under this Act.
(Source: P.A. 102-19, eff. 7-1-21.)


    Section 5-5. The Civil Administrative Code of Illinois is
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


amended by changing Sections 5-15, 5-20, 5-145, 5-150, 5-160,
5-365, and 5-375 as follows:


    (20 ILCS 5/5-15) (was 20 ILCS 5/3)
    Sec.   5-15.   Departments     of   State    government.   The
Departments of State government are created as follows:
        The Department on Aging.
        The Department of Agriculture.
        The Department of Central Management Services.
        The Department of Children and Family Services.
        The Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity.
        The Department of Corrections.
        The Department of Early Childhood.
        The Department of Employment Security.
        The Illinois Emergency Management Agency and Office of
    Homeland Security.
        The   Department   of      Financial    and   Professional
    Regulation.
        The Department of Healthcare and Family Services.
        The Department of Human Rights.
        The Department of Human Services.
        The Department of Innovation and Technology.
        The Department of Insurance.
        The Department of Juvenile Justice.
        The Department of Labor.
        The Department of the Lottery.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        The Department of Natural Resources.
        The Department of Public Health.
        The Department of Revenue.
        The Illinois State Police.
        The Department of Transportation.
        The Department of Veterans Affairs.
(Source: P.A. 103-594, eff. 6-25-24; 104-234, eff. 8-15-25.)


    (20 ILCS 5/5-20) (was 20 ILCS 5/4)
    Sec. 5-20. Heads of departments. Each department shall
have an officer as its head who shall be known as director or
secretary and who shall, subject to the provisions of the
Civil Administrative Code of Illinois, execute the powers and
discharge the duties vested by law in his or her respective
department.
    The following officers are hereby created:
        Director of Aging, for the Department on Aging.
        Director   of   Agriculture,   for     the   Department    of
    Agriculture.
        Director   of   Central   Management   Services,   for    the
    Department of Central Management Services.
        Director of Children and Family Services, for the
    Department of Children and Family Services.
        Director of Commerce and Economic Opportunity, for the
    Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity.
        Director   of   Corrections,   for     the   Department    of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Corrections.
          Director of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency
    and    Office     of    Homeland   Security,     for    the   Illinois
    Emergency       Management   Agency   and      Office    of   Homeland
    Security.
          Secretary of Early Childhood, for the Department of
    Early Childhood.
          Director of Employment Security, for the Department of
    Employment Security.
          Secretary of Financial and Professional Regulation,
    for    the    Department      of   Financial     and     Professional
    Regulation.
          Director of Healthcare and Family Services, for the
    Department of Healthcare and Family Services.
          Director of Human Rights, for the Department of Human
    Rights.
          Secretary of Human Services, for the Department of
    Human Services.
          Secretary    of    Innovation   and   Technology,       for   the
    Department of Innovation and Technology.
          Director     of    Insurance,   for      the     Department    of
    Insurance.
          Director of Juvenile Justice, for the Department of
    Juvenile Justice.
          Director of Labor, for the Department of Labor.
          Director of the Lottery, for the Department of the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Lottery.
        Director of Natural Resources, for the Department of
    Natural Resources.
        Director   of     Public   Health,   for     the   Department    of
    Public Health.
        Director of Revenue, for the Department of Revenue.
        Director     of   the   Illinois     State    Police,   for     the
    Illinois State Police.
        Secretary of Transportation, for the Department of
    Transportation.
        Director of Veterans Affairs, for the Department of
    Veterans Affairs.
(Source: P.A. 103-594, eff. 6-25-24; 104-234, eff. 8-15-25.)


    (20 ILCS 5/5-145) (was 20 ILCS 5/5.03)
    Sec. 5-145. In the Department of Labor. Two Assistant
Directors Director of Labor; a Chief Safety Inspector; and a
Superintendent of Occupational Safety and Health.
(Source: P.A. 98-874, eff. 1-1-15.)


    (20 ILCS 5/5-150) (was 20 ILCS 5/5.09)
    Sec. 5-150. In the Department of Natural Resources.                 Two
Assistant Directors Director of Natural Resources.
(Source: P.A. 91-239, eff. 1-1-00.)


    (20 ILCS 5/5-160) (was 20 ILCS 5/5.13h)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


     Sec. 5-160. In the Emergency Management Agency and Office
of Homeland Security. Assistant Director of the Emergency
Management Agency and Office of Homeland Security.
(Source: P.A. 93-1029, eff. 8-25-04.)


     (20 ILCS 5/5-365) (was 20 ILCS 5/9.03)
     Sec.     5-365.    In    the   Department    of   Labor.     For    terms
beginning on or after January 16, 2023, the Director of Labor
shall receive an annual salary of $180,000 or as set by the
Governor, whichever is higher. On July 1, 2023, and on each
July 1 thereafter, the Director shall receive an increase in
salary based on a cost of living adjustment as authorized by
Senate Joint Resolution 192 of the 86th General Assembly.
     For terms beginning on or after January 18, 2027 January
16, 2023, each the Assistant Director of Labor shall receive
an   annual    salary    of   $181,200   $156,600      or   as   set    by   the
Governor, whichever is higher. On July 1, 2023, and on each
July 1 thereafter, each the Assistant Director shall receive
an increase in salary based on a cost of living adjustment as
authorized by Senate Joint Resolution 192 of the 86th General
Assembly.
     The Chief Safety Inspector shall receive $24,700 from the
third Monday in January, 1979 to the third Monday in January,
1980, and $25,000 thereafter, or as set by the Compensation
Review Board, whichever is greater.
     The Superintendent of Occupational Safety and Health shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


receive $27,500, or as set by the Compensation Review Board,
whichever is greater.
    The Superintendent of Women's and Children's Employment
shall receive $22,000 from the third Monday in January, 1979
to the third Monday in January, 1980, and $22,500 thereafter,
or as set by the Compensation Review Board, whichever is
greater.
(Source: P.A. 102-1115, eff. 1-9-23.)


    (20 ILCS 5/5-375) (was 20 ILCS 5/9.09)
    Sec. 5-375. In the Department of Natural Resources. For
terms beginning on or after January 16, 2023, the Director of
Natural Resources shall receive an annual salary of $180,000
or as set by the Governor, whichever is higher. On July 1,
2023,   and   on   each   July   1   thereafter,   the   Director   shall
receive an increase in salary based on a cost of living
adjustment as authorized by Senate Joint Resolution 192 of the
86th General Assembly.
    For terms beginning on or after January 18, 2027 January
16, 2023, each the Assistant Director of Natural Resources
shall receive an annual salary of $181,200 $156,600 or as set
by the Governor, whichever is higher. On July 1, 2023, and on
each July 1 thereafter, each the Assistant Director shall
receive an increase in salary based on a cost of living
adjustment as authorized by Senate Joint Resolution 192 of the
86th General Assembly.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


(Source: P.A. 102-1115, eff. 1-9-23.)


    Section     5-7.      The   Department        of     Natural     Resources
(Conservation)      Law    of   the    Civil     Administrative      Code    of
Illinois is amended by changing Section 805-305 as follows:


    (20 ILCS 805/805-305) (was 20 ILCS 805/63a23)
    Sec. 805-305. Campsites and housing facilities.
    (a) The Department has the power to provide facilities for
overnight tent and trailer campsites and to provide suitable
housing facilities for student and juvenile overnight camping
groups. The Department of Natural Resources may regulate, by
administrative order, the fees to be charged for tent and
trailer camping units at individual park areas based upon the
facilities available.
    (b) However, for campsites with access to showers or
electricity, any Illinois resident who is age 62 or older or
has a Class 2 disability as defined in Section 4A of the
Illinois     Identification     Card    Act      shall    be   charged      only
one-half of the camping fee charged to the general public
during the period Monday through Thursday of any week and
shall be charged the same camping fee as the general public on
all other days. For campsites without access to showers or
electricity, no camping fee authorized by this Section shall
be charged to any resident of Illinois who has a Class 2
disability     as   defined     in     Section     4A    of    the    Illinois
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Identification     Card      Act.   For   campsites     without    access   to
showers or electricity, no camping fee authorized by this
Section shall be charged to any resident of Illinois who is age
62 or older for the use of a campsite unit during the period
Monday through Thursday of any week. No camping fee authorized
by this Section shall be charged to any resident of Illinois
who is a veteran with a disability or a former prisoner of war,
as defined in Section 5 of the Department of Veterans Affairs
Act.    No   camping   fee    authorized    by   this    Section    shall   be
charged to any resident of Illinois after returning from
service abroad or mobilization by the President of the United
States as an active duty member of the United States Armed
Forces, the Illinois National Guard, or the Reserves of the
United States Armed Forces for the amount of time that the
active duty member spent in service abroad or mobilized if the
person applies for a pass with the Department within 2 years
after    returning     and    provides     acceptable     verification      of
service or mobilization to the Department. Any portion of a
year that the active duty member spent in service abroad or
mobilized shall count as a full year. The procedure by which a
person may provide to the Department verification of service
abroad or mobilization by the President of the United States
shall be set by administrative rule. Nonresidents shall be
charged the same fees as are authorized for the general public
regardless of age. The Department shall provide by regulation
for suitable proof of age, or either a valid driver's license
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


or a "Golden Age Passport" issued by the federal government
shall be acceptable as proof of age. The Department shall
further provide by regulation that notice of these reduced
admission fees be posted in a conspicuous place and manner.
    Reduced fees authorized in this Section shall not apply to
any charge for utility service.
    For the purposes of this Section, "acceptable verification
of service or mobilization" means official documentation from
the Department of Defense or the appropriate Major Command
showing mobilization dates or service abroad dates, including:
(i) a DD-214, (ii) a letter from the Illinois Department of
Military Affairs for members of the Illinois National Guard,
(iii) a letter from the Regional Reserve Command for members
of the Armed Forces Reserve, (iv) a letter from the Major
Command   covering    Illinois     for    active    duty   members,   (v)
personnel records for mobilized State employees, and (vi) any
other documentation that the Department, by administrative
rule, deems acceptable to establish dates of mobilization or
service abroad.
    For   the   purposes   of    this    Section,   the    term   "service
abroad" means active duty service outside of the 50 United
States and the District of Columbia, and includes all active
duty service in territories and possessions of the United
States.
    (c) To promote State campground use, the Department shall
have the authority to offer a coupon that allows for the waiver
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


of one night of camping fees with the purchase of at least one
additional night of camping at any site that is owned, leased,
or managed by the Department and that has camping facilities.
The camping coupon shall be valid only from August 1, 2026 2025
through December 31, 2026 2025 4 for a camper who:
          (1) is 18 years of age or older; and
          (2) complies with the written requirements that are
      published by the Department, located on the coupon, and
      set forth in this subsection (c).
      The coupons issued pursuant to this subsection (c) shall
be available on a first-come, first-served basis as advertised
by the Department or for those visiting Conservation World at
the Illinois State Fair or the Department's booth at the
DuQuoin State Fair and only while supplies last for each day of
the   Illinois    State     Fair    and   the     DuQuoin   State     Fair.   The
Department shall publicly announce on its website the number
of coupons that will be available each day of the Illinois
State   Fair   and    the   DuQuoin       State    Fair.    Fees   for   utility
service are not subject to waiver by the coupon. Coupons that
are redeemed pursuant to this subsection (c) are limited to a
total of one night of free camping with the purchase of at
least one additional night of camping. The free night of
camping shall be applied to the final night of camping for a
camping trip lasting at least 2 nights in length or longer.
(Source:   P.A.      103-588,      eff.   6-5-24;    104-2,    eff.      6-16-25;
104-234, eff. 8-15-25; revised 9-10-25.)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b



      Section 5-10. The Illinois Lottery Law is amended by
changing Section 21.15 as follows:


      (20 ILCS 1605/21.15)
      Sec. 21.15. Scratch-off for United Negro College Fund
Illinois.
      (a)     The    Department          shall        offer     a     special    instant
scratch-off game for the benefit of United Negro College Fund,
Inc.,       Illinois      in   support        of    educational       scholarships      to
university and college students who are Illinois residents.
The    game    shall      commence       on        January    1,    2024   or    as    soon
thereafter,         at    the    discretion           of     the     Director,    as    is
reasonably practical. The operation of the game shall be
governed by this Act and any rules adopted by the Department.
The Department must consult with the UNCF Illinois office
regarding the design and promotion of the game.
      (b) The UNCF Scholarship Fund is created as a special fund
in    the    State     treasury.        The    net     revenue      from   the   special
instant scratch-off game sold for the benefit of the United
Negro College Fund, Inc., Illinois in support of education
scholarships         to    university         and     college       students     who   are
Illinois       residents        shall    be        deposited       into   the   fund   for
appropriation by the General Assembly solely to the Illinois
Student Assistance Commission for the purpose of making a
grant to the United Negro College Fund, Inc. The grant shall be
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


used for funding the UNCF Illinois Scholarship Program for
awards to university and college students. Funding shall be
used   solely     for   the   UNCF      Illinois      Scholarship     program
scholarship      awards    and    not      to    cover        any    unrelated
administrative costs of the United Negro College Fund, Inc., a
501(c)(3) nonprofit recipient organization.
    Moneys      received   for    the    purposes      of     this    Section,
including, without limitation, net revenue from the special
instant scratch-off game and from gifts, grants, and awards
from any public or private entity, must be deposited into the
fund. Any interest earned on moneys in the fund must be
deposited into the fund. For the purposes of this subsection,
"net revenue" means the total amount for which tickets have
been sold less the sum of the amount paid out in the prizes and
to retailers and direct and estimated administrative expenses
of the Department solely related to the scratch-off game under
this Section.
    (c) During the time that tickets are sold for the special
instant   scratch-off      game   that    benefits      the    United   Negro
College Fund Illinois in support of education scholarships to
university and college students, the Department shall not
unreasonably diminish the efforts devoted to marketing any
other instant scratch-off lottery game.
    (d)   The    Department   may    adopt      any   rules    necessary    to
implement and administer the provisions of this Section.
(Source: P.A. 103-381, eff. 7-28-23.)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b



    Section 5-15. The Department of Veterans Affairs Act is
amended by changing Sections 2g, 2.03, and 2.04 as follows:


    (20 ILCS 2805/2g)
    Sec. 2g. The Illinois Veterans Veterans' Homes Fund. The
Illinois Veterans Veterans' Homes Fund is hereby created as a
special fund in the State treasury. From appropriations to the
Department from the Fund the Department shall purchase needed
equipment and supplies to enhance the lives of the residents
at and for the operations of veterans veterans' homes in
Illinois,        including       capital     improvements,         building
rehabilitation, and repairs.
(Source: P.A. 100-392, eff. 8-25-17.)


    (20 ILCS 2805/2.03) (from Ch. 126 1/2, par. 67.03)
    Sec. 2.03. Admissions. Admissions to an Illinois Veterans
Home are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
Department       of   Veterans   Veterans'    Affairs     to   govern    the
admission of applicants.
    Each resident of a Home is liable for the payment of sums
representing maintenance charges for care at the Home at a
rate   to   be    determined     by   the   Department,    based    on   the
resident's ability to pay. However, the charges shall not
exceed the average annual per capita cost of maintaining the
resident in the Home. The Department, upon being furnished
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


proof of payment, shall in its discretion make allowances for
unusual expenses in determining the ability of the resident to
pay maintenance charges.
    The basis upon which the payment of maintenance charges
shall be calculated by the Department is the average per
capita cost for the care of all residents at each Home for the
fiscal year immediately preceding the period for which the
rate for each Home is being calculated.
    The    Department          may    require   residents       to    pay    charges
monthly, quarterly, or otherwise as may be most suitably
arranged for the individual members. The amounts received from
each   Home    for       the     charges    shall    be    transmitted       to     the
Treasurer     of     the    State      of   Illinois      for   deposit     in    each
Veterans      Home       Fund,    respectively,        except     that      receipts
attributable to the Illinois Veterans Home at Chicago shall be
deposited into the Illinois Veterans Veterans' Homes Fund.
    The Department may investigate the financial condition of
residents     of     a     Home   to    determine      their    ability      to     pay
maintenance charges and to establish standards as a basis of
judgment    for      such      determination.       Such   standards        shall    be
recomputed periodically to reflect changes in the cost of
living and other pertinent factors.
    Refusal     to       pay    the    maintenance     charges       is   cause     for
discharge of a resident from a Home.
    The Department may collect any medical or health benefits
to which a resident may become entitled through tax supported
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


or privately financed systems of insurance, as a result of his
or her care or treatment in the facilities provided by the
Department,     or   because      of    care      or   treatment    in    other
facilities when such care or treatment has been paid for by the
Department.
     Admission of a resident is not limited or conditioned in
any manner by the financial status of the resident or his or
her ability to pay maintenance charges.
     The Department may accept and hold on behalf of the State,
if for the public interest, a grant, gift, devise, or bequest
of money or property to the Department made in trust for the
maintenance or support of a resident of an Illinois Veterans
Home or for any other legitimate purpose. The Department shall
cause each gift, grant, devise, or bequest to be kept as a
distinct fund and shall invest the same in the manner provided
by the laws of this State relating to securities in which the
deposit    in   savings    banks       may   be   invested.   However,        the
Department may, at its discretion, deposit in a proper trust
company, bank, or savings bank, during the continuance of the
trust, any fund left in trust for the life of a person and
shall   adopt   rules     and    regulations      governing   the    deposit,
transfer, or withdrawal of the fund. The Department shall, on
the expiration of any trust as provided in any instrument
creating the trust, dispose of the fund in the manner provided
in   the   instrument.     The    Department       shall   include       in   its
required reports a statement showing what funds are so held by
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


it and the condition of the funds; provided that moneys monies
found on residents at the time of their admission or accruing
to them during their residence at a Home and moneys monies
deposited with the administrators by relatives, guardians, or
friends of residents for the special comfort and pleasure of
the resident shall remain in the custody of the administrators
who shall act as trustees for disbursement to, on behalf of, or
for the benefit of the resident. All types of retirement and
pension benefits from private and public sources may be paid
directly to the administrator of a Home for deposit to the
resident trust fund account.
(Source: P.A. 100-392, eff. 8-25-17.)


    (20 ILCS 2805/2.04) (from Ch. 126 1/2, par. 67.04)
    Sec.   2.04.   There    shall   be   established     in   the   State
treasury Treasury special funds known as (i) the LaSalle
Veterans Home Fund, (ii) the Anna Veterans Home Fund, (iii)
the Manteno Veterans Home Fund, and (iv) the Quincy Veterans
Home Fund. All moneys received by an Illinois Veterans Home
from   Medicare    and   from   maintenance    charges   to   veterans,
spouses, and surviving spouses residing at that Home shall be
paid into that Home's Fund. All moneys received from the U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs for patient care shall be
transmitted to the Treasurer of the State for deposit in the
Veterans Home Fund for the Home in which the veteran resides.
Appropriations shall be made from a Fund only for the needs of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the     Home,        including      capital       improvements,          building
rehabilitation, and repairs. The Illinois Veterans Veterans'
Homes Fund shall be the Veterans Home Fund for the Illinois
Veterans Home at Chicago.
      The administrator of each Veterans Home shall establish a
locally       held   member's      benefits      fund.      The    Director    may
authorize the Veterans Home to conduct limited fundraising in
accordance with applicable laws and regulations for which the
sole    purpose      is   to   benefit    the    Veterans     Home's     member's
benefits fund. Revenues accruing to an Illinois Veterans Home,
including any donations, grants for the operation of the Home,
profits from commissary stores, and funds received from any
individual or other source, including limited fundraising,
shall     be     deposited        into   that     Home's      benefits        fund.
Expenditures from the benefits funds shall be solely for the
special       comfort,     pleasure,     and     amusement        of   residents.
Contributors of unsolicited private donations may specify the
purpose for which the private donations are to be used.
      Upon request of the Department, the State's Attorney of
the county in which a resident or living former resident of an
Illinois       Veterans    Home    who   is   liable     under    this   Act   for
payment of sums representing maintenance charges resides shall
file an action in a court of competent jurisdiction against
any such person who fails or refuses to pay such sums. The
court may order the payment of sums due to maintenance charges
for    such    period     or   periods   of     time   as   the    circumstances
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


require.
      Upon the death of a person who is or has been a resident of
an    Illinois    Veterans   Home    who   is   liable    for    maintenance
charges and who is possessed of property, the Department may
present a claim for such sum or for the balance due in case
less than the rate prescribed under this Act has been paid. The
claim shall be allowed and paid as other lawful claims against
the estate.
      The administrator of each Veterans Home shall establish a
locally held trust fund to maintain moneys held for residents.
Whenever the Department finds it necessary to preserve order,
preserve health, or enforce discipline, the resident shall
deposit in a trust account at the Home such moneys monies from
any source of income as may be determined necessary, and
disbursement of these funds to the resident shall be made only
by direction of the administrator.
      If a resident of an Illinois Veterans Home has a dependent
child, spouse, or parent the administrator may require that
all   moneys     monies   received   be    deposited     into    in    a   trust
account    with    dependency   contributions      being        made   at   the
direction of the administrator. The balance retained in the
trust account shall be disbursed to the resident at the time of
discharge from the Home or to his or her heirs or legal
representative at the time of the resident's death, subject to
Department regulations or order of the court.
      The Director of Central Management Services, with the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


consent of the Director of Veterans Affairs, is authorized and
empowered to lease or let any real property held by the
Department of Veterans Affairs for an Illinois Veterans Home
to entities or persons upon terms and conditions which are
considered to be in the best interest of that Home. The real
property    must    not   be   needed     for    any     direct   or   immediate
purpose    of   the   Home.    In   any   leasing        or   letting,   primary
consideration shall be given to the use of real property for
agricultural       purposes,    and   all       moneys    received     shall   be
transmitted to the Treasurer of the State for deposit in the
appropriate Veterans Home Fund.
    Each administrator of an Illinois Veterans Home who has an
established locally held member's benefits fund shall prepare
and submit to the Department a monthly report of all donations
received, including donations of a nonmonetary nature. The
report shall include the end of month balance of the locally
held member's benefits fund.
(Source: P.A. 104-234, eff. 8-15-25.)


    Section 5-17. The State Fire Marshal Act is amended by
adding Section 2.9 as follows:


    (20 ILCS 2905/2.9 new)
    Sec. 2.9. State Fire Marshal Special Purposes Fund. The
State Fire Marshal Special Purposes Fund is established as a
State trust fund to be held outside of the State treasury, with
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the State Treasurer as ex officio custodian. The Office is
authorized to accept and deposit into the Fund moneys received
from grants, gifts, or any other source, public or private, in
support of the activities authorized by this Act. Moneys in
the Fund shall be expended in accordance with the terms of any
grants or gifts. Moneys on deposit in the Fund are not subject
to sweeps, administrative chargebacks, or any other fiscal
maneuver that would in any way transfer any amounts into any
other fund of the State, unless required by State or federal
law.


      Section 5-18. The Governor's Office of Management and
Budget Act is amended by changing Section 10 as follows:


      (20 ILCS 3005/10)
      Sec. 10. Budget Reserve for Immediate Disbursements and
Governmental Emergencies Fund.
      (a) There is created in the State treasury as a special
fund    the   Budget     Reserve    for    Immediate       Disbursements      and
Governmental Emergencies (BRIDGE) Fund. The Fund may receive
revenue from any authorized source, including, but not limited
to,    gifts,   grants,       awards,      transfers,       and    appropriated
deposits.     Moneys     in   the   fund    shall     be    used    to   provide
supplemental moneys for other funds held in the State treasury
in    the   event   of   unanticipated       delays    in    or    failures    of
revenues when supplemental moneys are required to effectuate
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


appropriations enacted by the General Assembly.
      (b) Upon the written direction of the Governor, the State
Comptroller        shall      direct,    and    the     State      Treasurer     shall
transfer,      specified        amounts    held       in    the    BRIDGE      Fund   to
specified funds in the State treasury for expenditure pursuant
to appropriations from funds so specified. Upon the written
direction of the Governor, the State Comptroller shall direct,
and the State Treasurer shall transfer, specified amounts from
funds in the State treasury that have received transfers from
the   BRIDGE    Fund       to   repay,    in    whole       or    in   part,   amounts
previously transferred pursuant to this subsection (b).
      (c) In addition to any other transfer that may be provided
for   by    law,    on     July   1,    2026,   or     as       soon   thereafter     as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer the sum of $70,000,000 from the
Budget Reserve for Immediate Disbursements and Governmental
Emergencies Fund to the Fund for Illinois' Future.
(Source: P.A. 104-2, eff. 6-16-25.)


      Section 5-19. The Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act
is amended by changing Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 12, 14,
18, and 23 as follows:


      (20 ILCS 3305/2) (from Ch. 127, par. 1052)
      Sec. 2. Policy and Purposes.
      (a)   Because      of     the    possibility         of    the   occurrence     of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


disasters of unprecedented size and destructiveness resulting
from the explosion in this or in neighboring states of atomic
or other means from without or by means of sabotage or other
disloyal actions within, or from fire, flood, earthquake,
telecommunications failure, or other natural or technological
causes, and in order to ensure insure that this State will be
prepared to and will adequately deal with any disasters,
preserve the lives and property of the people of this State and
protect the public peace, health, and safety in the event of a
disaster, it is found and declared to be necessary:
        (1)    To        create      a   State    emergency    management      and
    homeland security agency an Illinois Emergency Management
    Agency    and    to     authorize       emergency    management      programs
    within the political subdivisions of the State.
        (2) To confer upon the Governor and upon the principal
    executive officer of the political subdivisions of the
    State the powers provided herein.
        (3) To provide for the rendering of mutual aid among
    the political subdivisions and taxing districts of the
    State    and    with       other     states   and   with   respect    to   the
    carrying       out    of    an   emergency     management    and     homeland
    security programs program.
    (b) It is further declared to be the purpose of this Act
and the policy of the State that all emergency management and
homeland security programs of this State be coordinated to the
maximum extent with the comparable programs of the federal
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


government, including its various departments and agencies, of
other states and localities and private agencies of every
type, to the end that the most effective preparation and use
may be made of the nation's resources and facilities for
dealing with any disaster that may occur.
(Source: P.A. 87-168; 88-606, eff. 1-1-95.)


    (20 ILCS 3305/3) (from Ch. 127, par. 1053)
    Sec.    3.    Limitations.       Nothing    in    this   Act       shall    be
construed to:
    (a)    Interfere   with    the     course    or   conduct     of    a   labor
dispute, except that actions otherwise authorized by this Act
or other laws may be taken when necessary to mitigate imminent
or existing danger to public health or safety;
    (b) Interfere with dissemination of news or comment of
public     affairs;    but     any      communications          facility        or
organization      (including     but     not     limited     to    radio       and
television stations, wire services, and newspapers) may be
requested    to    transmit    or     print     public   service        messages
furnishing information or instructions in connection with a
disaster;
    (c) Affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police
forces, fire fighting forces, units of the armed forces of the
United States, or of any personnel thereof, when on active
duty; but State and political subdivision emergency operations
plans shall place reliance upon the forces available for
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


performance of functions related to emergency management and
homeland security;
    (d)   Limit,   modify,     or   abridge    the   authority     of   the
Governor to proclaim martial law or exercise any other powers
vested in the Governor under the constitution, statutes, or
common law of this State, independent of or in conjunction
with any provisions of this Act; limit any home rule unit; or
prohibit any contract or association pursuant to Article VII,
Section 10 of the Illinois Constitution.
(Source: P.A. 92-73, eff. 1-1-02.)


    (20 ILCS 3305/4) (from Ch. 127, par. 1054)
    Sec. 4. Definitions. As used in this Act, unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise, the following words and
terms have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
    "Coordinator" means the staff assistant to the principal
executive officer of a political subdivision with the duty of
coordinating     the   emergency     management      programs    of     that
political subdivision.
    "Cyber incident" means an event occurring on or conducted
through   a    computer   network    that     actually    or    imminently
jeopardizes the integrity, confidentiality, or availability of
computers, information or communications systems or networks,
physical or virtual infrastructure controlled by computers or
information    systems,   or   information     resident    thereon      that
affect or control infrastructure or communications networks
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


utilized    by    the       public.     "Cyber     incident"       includes     a
vulnerability     in        information        systems,     system       security
procedures, internal controls, or implementations that could
be   exploited   by     a    threat    source    that     affect    or    control
infrastructure    or        communications      networks    utilized      by   the
public.
     "Disaster" means an occurrence or threat of widespread or
severe damage, injury or loss of life or property resulting
from any natural, technological, or human cause, including but
not limited to fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials   spill       or     other    water     contamination         requiring
emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air
contamination,      blight,         extended     periods     of    severe      and
inclement weather, drought, infestation, critical shortages of
essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot, hostile military
or   paramilitary      action,      public     health     emergencies,      cyber
incidents, or acts of domestic terrorism.
     "Emergency Management" means the efforts of the State and
the political subdivisions to develop, plan, analyze, conduct,
provide,    implement         and    maintain     programs        for    disaster
mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery.
     "Emergency Services and Disaster Agency" means the agency
by this name, by the name Emergency Management Agency, or by
any other name that is established by ordinance within a
political subdivision to coordinate the emergency management
program within that political subdivision and with private
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


organizations, other political subdivisions, the State and
federal governments.
     "Emergency Operations Plan" means the written plan of the
State and political subdivisions describing the organization,
mission,     and   functions    of    the    government      and    supporting
services for responding to and recovering from disasters and
shall include plans that take into account the needs of those
individuals with household pets and service animals following
a major disaster or emergency.
     "Emergency Services" means the coordination of functions
by   the   State   and    its   political     subdivision,         other     than
functions for which military forces are primarily responsible,
as may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize, repair,
and alleviate injury and damage resulting from any natural or
technological      causes.      These    functions      include,          without
limitation, fire fighting services, police services, emergency
aviation services, medical and health services, HazMat and
technical rescue teams, rescue, engineering, warning services,
communications,       radiological,      chemical      and   other        special
weapons    defense,      evacuation     of   persons    from       stricken    or
threatened     areas,     emergency     assigned    functions        of    plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services
and other functions related to civilian protection, together
with   all    other      activities     necessary      or    incidental        to
protecting life or property.
     "Exercise" means a planned event realistically simulating
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


a   disaster,      conducted      for   the    purpose       of     evaluating         the
political        subdivision's      coordinated         emergency             management
capabilities,       including,      but    not      limited       to,    testing       the
emergency operations plan.
     "HazMat team" means a career or volunteer mobile support
team that has been authorized by a unit of local government to
respond     to    hazardous       materials         emergencies         and     that    is
primarily    designed       for    emergency        response       to    chemical       or
biological       terrorism,       radiological         emergencies,            hazardous
material spills, releases, or fires, or other contamination
events.
     "Illinois      Emergency      Management         Agency       and        Office    of
Homeland Security" or "Agency" means the agency established by
this Act within the executive branch of State Government
responsible        for   coordination          of     the    overall           emergency
management and homeland security programs program of the State
and with private organizations, political subdivisions, and
the federal government. Illinois Emergency Management Agency
and Office of Homeland Security also means the State Emergency
Response    Commission      responsible         for    the    implementation            of
Title III of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act
of 1986.
     "Incident" means a disaster that does not rise to the
level of a Governor-issued proclamation.
     "Mobile      Support     Team"       or   "MST"        means       a     group     of
individuals designated as a team by the Governor or Director
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


to train prior to and to be activated, if the Governor or the
Director so determines, to aid and reinforce the State and
political subdivision emergency management efforts in response
to an incident, disaster, federally declared national special
security event, or other large public event.
    "Municipality" means any city, village, and incorporated
town.
    "Political Subdivision" means any county, city, village,
or incorporated town or township if the township is in a county
having a population of more than 2,000,000.
    "Principal Executive Officer" means chair of the county
board, supervisor of a township if the township is in a county
having a population of more than 2,000,000, mayor of a city or
incorporated town, president of a village, or in their absence
or disability, the interim successor as established under
Section 7 of the Emergency Interim Executive Succession Act.
    "Public health emergency" means an occurrence or imminent
threat of an illness or health condition that:
        (a) is believed to be caused by any of the following:
            (i) bioterrorism;
            (ii)   the    appearance   of   a   novel   or   previously
        controlled       or   eradicated    infectious       agent   or
        biological toxin;
            (iii) a natural disaster;
            (iv) a chemical attack or accidental release; or
            (v) a nuclear attack or accident; and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        (b) poses a high probability of any of the following
    harms:
              (i)    a       large    number   of    deaths     in    the    affected
        population;
              (ii)       a    large    number    of      serious     or     long-term
        disabilities in the affected population; or
              (iii)      widespread       exposure        to   an    infectious    or
        toxic       agent       that     poses      a    significant        risk   of
        substantial future harm to a large number of people in
        the affected population.
    "Statewide mutual aid organization" means an entity with
local government members throughout the State that facilitates
temporary    assistance         through    its      members    in    a    particular
public safety discipline, such as police, fire or emergency
management, when an occurrence exceeds a member jurisdiction's
capabilities.
    "Technical rescue team" means a career or volunteer mobile
support team that has been authorized by a unit of local
government to respond to building collapse, high angle rescue,
and other specialized rescue emergencies and that is primarily
designated for emergency response to technical rescue events.
(Source: P.A. 104-418, eff. 1-1-26.)


    (20 ILCS 3305/5) (from Ch. 127, par. 1055)
    Sec. 5. Illinois Emergency Management Agency and Office of
Homeland Security.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (a) There is created within the executive branch of the
State Government an Illinois Emergency Management Agency and
Office of Homeland Security and a Director of the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency and Office of Homeland Security,
herein called the "Director" who shall be the head thereof.
The Director shall be appointed by the Governor, with the
advice and consent of the Senate, and shall serve for a term of
2 years beginning on the third Monday in January of the
odd-numbered year, and until a successor is appointed and has
qualified;     except      that     the    term   of    the     first   Director
appointed under this Act shall expire on the third Monday in
January,      1989.    The    Director       shall     not     hold   any   other
remunerative public office. For terms beginning after January
18, 2019 (the effective date of Public Act 100-1179) and
before January 16, 2023, the annual salary of the Director
shall   be     as     provided      in     Section     5-300    of    the   Civil
Administrative Code of Illinois. Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, for terms beginning on or after January 16,
2023, the Director shall receive an annual salary of $180,000
or as set by the Governor, whichever is higher. On July 1,
2023,   and    on   each     July   1     thereafter,    the    Director    shall
receive an increase in salary based on a cost of living
adjustment as authorized by Senate Joint Resolution 192 of the
86th General Assembly.
    For terms beginning on or after January 16, 2023, the
Assistant Director of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


shall receive an annual salary of $156,600 or as set by the
Governor, whichever is higher. On July 1, 2023, and on each
July 1 thereafter, the Assistant Director shall receive an
increase in salary based on a cost of living adjustment as
authorized by Senate Joint Resolution 192 of the 86th General
Assembly.
    (b) The Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall obtain,
under   the   provisions    of   the   Personnel   Code,     technical,
clerical, stenographic and other administrative personnel, and
may make expenditures within the appropriation therefor as may
be necessary to carry out the purpose of this Act. The agency
created by this Act is intended to be a successor to the agency
created under the Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster
Agency Act of 1975 and the personnel, equipment, records, and
appropriations of that agency are transferred to the successor
agency as of June 30, 1988 (the effective date of this Act).
    (c) The Director, subject to the direction and control of
the Governor, shall be the executive head of the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency and the State Emergency Response
Commission and shall be responsible under the direction of the
Governor, for carrying out the programs program for emergency
management,    nuclear     and   radiation   safety,   and    homeland
security of this State. The Director shall also maintain
liaison and cooperate with the emergency management, nuclear
and radiation safety, and homeland security organizations of
this State and other states and of the federal government.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (d) The Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall take an
integral part in the development and revision of political
subdivision    emergency       operations    plans     prepared     under
paragraph (f) of Section 10. To this end it shall employ or
otherwise secure the services of professional and technical
personnel   capable     of    providing   expert    assistance    to     the
emergency   services    and    disaster   agencies.    These    personnel
shall consult with emergency services and disaster agencies on
a regular basis and shall make field examinations of the
areas, circumstances, and conditions that particular political
subdivision emergency operations plans are intended to apply.
    (e) The Illinois Emergency Management Agency and political
subdivisions    shall    be    encouraged    to     form   an   emergency
management advisory committee composed of private and public
personnel   representing      the   emergency     management    phases    of
mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. The Local
Emergency Planning Committee, as created under the Illinois
Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, shall
serve as an advisory committee to the emergency services and
disaster agency or agencies serving within the boundaries of
that Local Emergency Planning Committee planning district for:
        (1)    the   development     of   emergency    operations      plan
    provisions for hazardous chemical emergencies; and
        (2) the assessment of emergency response capabilities
    related to hazardous chemical emergencies.
    (f) The Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        (1)     Coordinate    the     overall     emergency      management,
    nuclear     and    radiation     safety,     and    homeland      security
    program of the State.
        (2)   Cooperate      with    local     governments,     the    federal
    government, and any public or private agency or entity in
    achieving any purpose of this Act and in implementing
    emergency         management       programs         for      mitigation,
    preparedness, response, and recovery.
        (2.5) Develop a comprehensive emergency preparedness
    and response plan for any nuclear accident in accordance
    with Section 65 of the Nuclear Safety Law of 2004 and in
    development of the Illinois Nuclear Safety Preparedness
    program in accordance with Section                 8 of    the Illinois
    Nuclear Safety Preparedness Act.
        (2.6) Coordinate with the Department of Public Health
    with respect to planning for and responding to public
    health emergencies.
        (3) Prepare, for issuance by the Governor, executive
    orders, proclamations, and regulations as necessary or
    appropriate in coping with disasters.
        (4) Promulgate rules and requirements for political
    subdivision       emergency     operations     plans      that    are   not
    inconsistent      with   and    are   at    least    as    stringent     as
    applicable federal laws and regulations.
        (5) Review and approve, in accordance with Illinois
    Emergency Management Agency rules, emergency operations
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    plans for those political subdivisions required to have an
    emergency services and disaster agency pursuant to this
    Act.
        (5.5)     Promulgate    rules   and     requirements       for    the
    political     subdivision    emergency      management       exercises,
    including, but not limited to, exercises of the emergency
    operations plans.
        (5.10) Review, evaluate, and approve, in accordance
    with Illinois Emergency Management Agency rules, political
    subdivision     emergency    management        exercises     for     those
    political   subdivisions     required       to   have   an     emergency
    services and disaster agency pursuant to this Act.
        (6)   Determine   requirements        of     the   State    and   its
    political   subdivisions     for    food,      clothing,     and     other
    necessities in event of a disaster.
        (7) Establish a register of persons with types of
    emergency management training and skills in mitigation,
    preparedness, response, and recovery.
        (8) Establish a register of government and private
    response resources available for use in a disaster.
        (9) Expand the Earthquake Awareness Program and its
    efforts to distribute earthquake preparedness materials to
    schools, political subdivisions, community groups, civic
    organizations, and the media. Emphasis will be placed on
    those areas of the State most at risk from an earthquake.
    Maintain the list of all school districts, hospitals,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    airports, power plants, including nuclear power plants,
    lakes, dams, emergency response facilities of all types,
    and all other major public or private structures which are
    at the greatest risk of damage from earthquakes under
    circumstances where the damage would cause subsequent harm
    to the surrounding communities and residents.
        (10)    Disseminate      all   information,      completely    and
    without delay, on water levels for rivers and streams and
    any other data pertaining to potential flooding supplied
    by the Division of Water Resources within the Department
    of Natural Resources to all political subdivisions to the
    maximum extent possible.
        (11) Develop agreements, if feasible, with medical
    supply and equipment firms to supply resources as are
    necessary     to   respond   to    an   earthquake    or   any    other
    disaster as defined in this Act. These resources will be
    made available upon notifying the vendor of the disaster.
    Payment for the resources will be             in accordance with
    Section 7 of this Act. The Illinois Department of Public
    Health shall determine which resources will be required
    and requested.
        (11.5) In coordination with the Illinois State Police,
    develop and implement a community outreach program to
    promote awareness among the State's parents and children
    of child abduction prevention and response.
        (12) Out of funds appropriated for these purposes,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


     award capital and non-capital grants to Illinois hospitals
     or health care facilities located outside of a city with a
     population in excess of 1,000,000 to be used for purposes
     that include, but are not limited to, preparing to respond
     to     mass     casualties       and    disasters,       maintaining      and
     improving        patient      safety    and    quality     of   care,     and
     protecting the confidentiality of patient information. No
     single        grant    for   a   capital   expenditure      shall     exceed
     $300,000. No single grant for a non-capital expenditure
     shall exceed $100,000. In awarding such grants, preference
     shall be given to             hospitals that serve a significant
     number of Medicaid recipients, but do not qualify for
     disproportionate share hospital adjustment payments under
     the Illinois Public Aid Code. To receive such a grant, a
     hospital or health care facility must provide funding of
     at least 50% of the cost of the project for which the grant
     is being requested. In awarding such grants the Illinois
     Emergency         Management         Agency     shall      consider       the
     recommendations of the Illinois Hospital Association.
            (13) Do all other things necessary, incidental or
     appropriate for the implementation of this Act.
     (g) The Illinois Emergency Management Agency is authorized
to   make    grants        to   various   higher    education    institutions,
public      K-12    school      districts,   area    vocational      centers    as
designated by the State Board of Education, inter-district
special education cooperatives, regional safe schools, and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


nonpublic K-12 schools for safety and security improvements.
For the purpose of this subsection (g), "higher education
institution" means a public university, a public community
college,     or     an    independent,           not-for-profit      or    for-profit
higher education institution located in this State. Grants
made under this subsection (g) shall be paid out of moneys
appropriated for that purpose from the Build Illinois Bond
Fund. The Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall adopt
rules   to    implement        this    subsection          (g).   These    rules   may
specify: (i) the manner of applying for grants; (ii) project
eligibility requirements; (iii) restrictions on the use of
grant moneys; (iv) the manner in which the various higher
education institutions must account for the use of grant
moneys;      and    (v)    any   other           provision    that   the    Illinois
Emergency Management Agency determines to be necessary or
useful for the administration of this subsection (g).
    (g-5)      The       Illinois      Emergency          Management      Agency    is
authorized     to    make      grants       to    not-for-profit     organizations
which are exempt from federal income taxation under section
501(c)(3) of the Federal Internal Revenue Code for eligible
security      improvements           that        assist    the    organization      in
preventing, preparing for, or responding to threats, attacks,
or acts of terrorism. To be eligible for a grant under the
program, the Agency must determine that the organization is at
a high risk of being subject to threats, attacks, or acts of
terrorism     based       on   the    organization's          profile,      ideology,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


mission,    or    beliefs.      Eligible       security    improvements         shall
include all eligible preparedness activities under the federal
Nonprofit Security Grant Program, including, but not limited
to, physical security upgrades, security training exercises,
preparedness training exercises, contracting with security
personnel, and any other security upgrades deemed eligible by
the     Director.      Eligible       security       improvements      shall      not
duplicate, in part or in whole, a project included under any
awarded federal grant or in a pending federal application. The
Director     shall      establish       procedures      and    forms      by    which
applicants       may    apply     for      a   grant     and    procedures        for
distributing grants to recipients. Any security improvements
awarded shall remain at the physical property listed in the
grant    application,      unless         authorized      by   Agency     rule      or
approved    by    the    Agency      in    writing.    The     procedures       shall
require each applicant to do the following:
          (1)    identify       and       substantiate       prior   or        current
      threats,    attacks,      or      acts    of    terrorism      against      the
      not-for-profit organization;
          (2) indicate the symbolic or strategic value of one or
      more sites that renders the site a possible target of a
      threat, attack, or act of terrorism;
          (3) discuss potential consequences to the organization
      if the site is damaged, destroyed, or disrupted by a
      threat, attack, or act of terrorism;
          (4) describe how the grant will be used to integrate
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


     organizational preparedness with broader State and local
     preparedness efforts, as described by the Agency in each
     Notice of Opportunity for Funding;
         (5) submit (i) a vulnerability assessment conducted by
     experienced    security,     law     enforcement,         or   military
     personnel,    or   conducted    using      an   Agency-approved       or
     federal Nonprofit Security Grant Program self-assessment
     tool, and (ii) a description of how the grant award will be
     used to address the vulnerabilities identified in the
     assessment; and
         (6) submit any other relevant information as may be
     required by the Director.
     The Agency is authorized to use funds appropriated for the
grant program described in this subsection (g-5) to administer
the program. Any Agency Notice of Opportunity for Funding,
proposed or final rulemaking, guidance, training opportunity,
or   other   resource   related     to   the    grant   program     must   be
published on the Agency's publicly available website, and any
announcements related to funding shall be shared with all
State legislative offices, the Governor's office, emergency
services and disaster agencies mandated or required pursuant
to subsections (b) through (d) of Section 10, and any other
State   agencies   as   determined       by    the   Agency.    Subject    to
appropriation, the grant application period shall be open for
no less than 45 calendar days during the first application
cycle each fiscal year, unless the Agency determines that a
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


shorter period is necessary to avoid conflicts with the annual
federal       Nonprofit      Security      Grant       Program    funding    cycle.
Additional application cycles may be conducted during the same
fiscal year, subject to availability of funds. Upon request,
Agency    staff      shall    provide      reasonable       assistance      to     any
applicant in completing a grant application or meeting a
post-award requirement.
      In addition to any advance payment rules or procedures
adopted       by   the   Agency,     the    Agency       shall    adopt   rules     or
procedures by which grantees under this subsection (g-5) may
receive a working capital advance of initial start-up costs
and up to 2 months of program expenses, not to exceed 25% of
the total award amount, if, during the application process,
the   grantee       demonstrates     a     need    for    funds    to    commence   a
project.       The       remaining       funds     must     be     paid     through
reimbursement after the grantee presents sufficient supporting
documentation of expenditures for eligible activities.
      (h) Except as provided in Section 17.5 of this Act, any
moneys received by the Agency from donations or sponsorships
unrelated      to    a   disaster    shall        be   deposited    into    in     the
Emergency Planning and Training Fund and used by the Agency,
subject to appropriation, to effectuate planning and training
activities. Any moneys received by the Agency from donations
during    a    disaster      and   intended       for    disaster       response    or
recovery shall be deposited into the Disaster Response and
Recovery Fund and used for disaster response and recovery
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


pursuant to the Disaster Relief Act.
      (i) The Illinois Emergency Management Agency may by rule
assess     and     collect    reasonable        fees     for    attendance       at
Agency-sponsored conferences to enable the Agency to carry out
the requirements of this Act. Any moneys received under this
subsection shall be deposited into in the Emergency Planning
and     Training    Fund     and    used   by    the    Agency,       subject    to
appropriation, for planning and training activities.
      (j) The Illinois Emergency Management Agency is authorized
to make grants to other State agencies, public universities,
units     of     local     government,     and        statewide    mutual       aid
organizations to enhance statewide emergency preparedness and
response.
      (k) Subject to appropriation from the Emergency Planning
and Training Fund, the Illinois Emergency Management Agency
and Office of Homeland Security shall obtain training services
and support for local emergency services and support for local
emergency      services      and    disaster     agencies       for     training,
exercises, and equipment related to carbon dioxide pipelines
and     sequestration,       and,   subject      to    the     availability      of
funding, shall provide $5,000 per year to the Illinois Fire
Service Institute for first responder training required under
Section 4-615 of the Public Utilities Act. Amounts in the
Emergency Planning and Training Fund will be used by the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency and Office of Homeland
Security for administrative costs incurred in carrying out the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


requirements of this subsection. To carry out the purposes of
this subsection, the Illinois Emergency Management Agency and
Office    of     Homeland    Security         may    accept      moneys    from   all
authorized sources into the Emergency Planning and Training
Fund, including, but not limited to, transfers from the Carbon
Dioxide    Sequestration          Administrative          Fund    and    the   Public
Utility Fund.
    (l)    The     Agency   shall        do   all    other    things      necessary,
incidental, or appropriate for the implementation of this Act,
including      the   adoption       of    rules      in    accordance      with   the
Illinois Administrative Procedure Act.
(Source: P.A. 103-418, eff. 1-1-24; 103-588, eff. 1-1-25;
103-651, eff. 7-18-24; 103-999, eff. 1-1-25; 104-417, eff.
8-15-25.)


    (20 ILCS 3305/6) (from Ch. 127, par. 1056)
    Sec. 6. Emergency Management Powers of the Governor.
    (a) The Governor shall have general direction and control
of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency and shall be
responsible for the carrying out of the provisions of this
Act.
    (b) In performing duties under this Act, the Governor is
authorized to cooperate with the federal government and with
other     states     in     all     matters         pertaining      to    emergency
management,       nuclear     and    radiation            safety,   and    homeland
security.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (c) In performing duties under this Act, the Governor is
further authorized:
        (1) To make, amend, and rescind all lawful necessary
    orders, rules, and regulations to carry out the provisions
    of this Act within the limits of the authority conferred
    upon the Governor.
        (2) To cause to be prepared a comprehensive plan and
    programs program for the emergency management, nuclear and
    radiation safety, and homeland security of this State,
    which   plan   and   program      shall    be    integrated     into     and
    coordinated     with   emergency          management,      nuclear       and
    radiation safety, and homeland security plans and programs
    of the federal government and of other states whenever
    possible and which plan and program may include:
             a.    Mitigation    of     injury      and   damage    caused    by
        disaster.
             b. Prompt and effective response to disaster.
             c. Emergency relief.
             d. Identification of areas particularly vulnerable
        to disasters.
             e. Recommendations for zoning, building, and other
        land-use     controls,        safety     measures     for    securing
        permanent    structures       and other       mitigation     measures
        designed to eliminate or reduce disasters or their
        impact.
             f.    Assistance      to     political        subdivisions       in
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


          designing emergency operations plans.
              g. Authorization and procedures for the erection
          or other construction of temporary works designed to
          mitigate danger, damage or loss from flood, or other
          disaster.
              h. Preparation and distribution to the appropriate
          State and political subdivision officials of a State
          catalog    of    federal,     State,   and   private   assistance
          programs.
              i. Organization of State personnel and chains of
          command.
              j. Coordination of federal, State, and political
          subdivision           emergency     management,     nuclear     and
          radiation safety, and homeland security activities.
              k. Other necessary matters.
          (3) In accordance with the plans and programs plan and
    program    for        the     emergency    management,     nuclear    and
    radiation safety, and homeland security of this State, and
    out of funds appropriated for these purposes, to procure
    and    preposition          supplies,     medicines,     materials    and
    equipment,      to     institute    training    programs     and    public
    information programs, and to take all other preparatory
    steps including the partial or full mobilization of MSTs
    and emergency services and disaster agencies to insure the
    furnishing of adequately trained and equipped forces for
    incidents, disasters, federally declared national special
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    security events, and other large public events.
        (4) Out of funds appropriated for these purposes, to
    make studies and surveys of the industries, resources, and
    facilities in this State as may be necessary to ascertain
    the capabilities of the State for emergency management
    phases of mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery
    and to plan for the most efficient emergency use thereof.
        (5) On behalf of this State, to negotiate for and
    submit    to     the    General   Assembly       for   its   approval      or
    rejection reciprocal mutual aid agreements or compacts
    with other states, either on a statewide or political
    subdivision basis. The agreements or compacts, shall be
    limited to the furnishing or exchange of food, clothing,
    medical     or    other       supplies,     engineering       and    police
    services;      emergency      housing     and    feeding;    National     and
    State Guards while under the control of the State; health,
    medical,    and    related     services;        fire   fighting,    rescue,
    transportation, communication, and construction services
    and equipment, provided, however, that if the General
    Assembly    be    not    in   session     and    the   Governor     has   not
    proclaimed the existence of a disaster under this Section,
    then the agreements or compacts shall instead be submitted
    to an Interim Committee on Emergency Management composed
    of 5 Senators appointed by the President of the Senate and
    of 5 Representatives           appointed by the Speaker of the
    House, during the month of June of each odd-numbered year
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    to serve for a 2 year term, beginning July 1 of that year,
    and until their successors are appointed and qualified, or
    until termination of their legislative service, whichever
    first occurs. Vacancies shall be filled by appointment for
    the   unexpired       term      in   the    same     manner        as   original
    appointments. All appointments shall be made in writing
    and filed with the Secretary of State as a public record.
    The Committee shall have the power to approve or reject
    any   agreements      or     compacts      for   and     on   behalf     of    the
    General      Assembly;        and,       provided      further,         that    an
    affirmative vote of 2/3 of the members of the Committee
    shall be necessary for the approval of any agreement or
    compact.
(Source: P.A. 104-418, eff. 1-1-26.)


    (20 ILCS 3305/7) (from Ch. 127, par. 1057)
    Sec. 7. Emergency Powers of the Governor. In the event of a
disaster,   as   defined       in   Section     4,     the    Governor      may,    by
proclamation     declare       that      a   disaster        exists.    Upon       such
proclamation, the Governor shall have and may exercise for a
period not to exceed 30 days the following emergency powers;
provided, however, that the lapse of the emergency powers
shall not, as regards any act or acts occurring or committed
within    the    30-day        period,       deprive     any      person,      firm,
corporation, political subdivision, or body politic of any
right or rights to compensation or reimbursement which he,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


she, it, or they may have under the provisions of this Act:
          (1)   To    suspend        the     provisions        of       any    regulatory
    statute     prescribing          procedures          for   conduct          of     State
    business, or the orders, rules and regulations of any
    State agency, if strict compliance with the provisions of
    any statute, order, rule, or regulation would in any way
    prevent,      hinder      or     delay    necessary        action,          including
    emergency purchases, by the Illinois Emergency Management
    Agency, in coping with the disaster.
          (2) To utilize all available resources of the State
    government       as   reasonably          necessary        to       cope    with    the
    disaster and of each political subdivision of the State.
          (3) To transfer the direction, personnel or functions
    of State departments and agencies or units thereof for the
    purpose of performing or facilitating disaster response
    and recovery programs.
          (4) On behalf of this State to take possession of, and
    to acquire full title or a lesser specified interest in,
    any personal property as may be necessary to accomplish
    the   objectives         set     forth    in    Section         2    of     this    Act,
    including:       airplanes,         automobiles,           trucks,          trailers,
    buses, and other vehicles; coal, oils, gasoline, and other
    fuels   and      means      of   propulsion;         explosives,           materials,
    equipment, and supplies; animals and livestock; feed and
    seed; food and provisions for humans and animals; clothing
    and   bedding;        and      medicines       and    medical         and    surgical
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    supplies; and to take possession of and for a limited
    period      occupy   and    use    any    real    estate    necessary    to
    accomplish those objectives; but only upon the undertaking
    by the State to pay just compensation therefor as in this
    Act    provided,      and    then        only    under     the   following
    provisions:
                a. The Governor, or the person or persons as the
          Governor may authorize so to do, may forthwith take
          possession of property for and on behalf of the State;
          provided, however, that the Governor or persons shall
          simultaneously with the taking, deliver to the owner
          or his or her agent, if the identity of the owner or
          agency is known or readily ascertainable, a signed
          statement in writing, that shall include the name and
          address of the owner, the date and place of the taking,
          description of the property sufficient to identify it,
          a statement of interest in the property that is being
          so taken, and, if possible, a statement in writing,
          signed by the owner, setting forth the sum that he or
          she is willing to accept as just compensation for the
          property or use. Whether or not the owner or agent is
          known or readily ascertainable, a true copy of the
          statement shall promptly be filed by the Governor or
          the   person with      the    Director,      who shall     keep   the
          docket of the statements. In cases where the sum that
          the owner is willing to accept as just compensation is
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        less than $1,000, copies of the statements shall also
        be filed by the Director with, and shall be passed upon
        by    an    Emergency          Management          Claims       Commission,
        consisting of 3 disinterested citizens who shall be
        appointed by the Governor, by and with the advice and
        consent    of    the    Senate,           within   20    days    after       the
        Governor's declaration of a disaster, and if the sum
        fixed by them as just compensation be less than $1,000
        and is accepted in writing by the owner, then the State
        Treasurer       out     of        funds     appropriated         for    these
        purposes, shall, upon certification thereof by the
        Emergency Management Claims Commission, cause the sum
        so certified forthwith to be paid to the owner. The
        Emergency Management Claims Commission is hereby given
        the   power     to     issue       appropriate      subpoenas          and    to
        administer       oaths        to     witnesses          and     shall       keep
        appropriate minutes and other records of its actions
        upon and the disposition made of all claims.
              b. When the compensation to be paid for the taking
        or use of property or interest therein is not or cannot
        be determined and paid under item a of this paragraph
        (4), a petition in the name of The People of the State
        of Illinois shall be promptly filed by the Director,
        which   filing may           be    enforced by          mandamus,      in    the
        circuit court of the county where the property or any
        part thereof was located when initially taken or used
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        under the provisions of this Act praying that the
        amount of compensation to be paid to the person or
        persons interested therein be fixed and determined.
        The   petition      shall      include     a   description     of   the
        property that has been taken, shall state the physical
        condition of the property when taken, shall name as
        defendants all interested parties, shall set forth the
        sum of money estimated to be just compensation for the
        property or interest therein taken or used, and shall
        be signed by the Director. The litigation shall be
        handled by the Attorney General for and on behalf of
        the State.
              c. Just compensation for the taking or use of
        property     or    interest       therein       shall   be    promptly
        ascertained in proceedings and established by judgment
        against the State, that shall include, as part of the
        just compensation so awarded, interest at the rate of
        6% per annum on the fair market value of the property
        or interest therein from the date of the taking or use
        to the date of the judgment; and the court may order
        the    payment      of        delinquent       taxes    and   special
        assessments       out    of   the amount       so   awarded   as    just
        compensation       and    may    make    any    other   orders      with
        respect to encumbrances, rents, insurance, and other
        charges, if any, as shall be just and equitable.
        (5) When required by the exigencies of the disaster,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    to sell, lend, rent, give, or distribute all or any part of
    property so or otherwise acquired to the inhabitants of
    this State, or to political subdivisions of this State,
    or, under the interstate mutual aid agreements or compacts
    as are entered into under the provisions of subparagraph
    (5) of paragraph (c) of Section 6 to other states, and to
    account for and transmit to the State Treasurer all funds,
    if any, received therefor.
        (6) To recommend the evacuation of all or part of the
    population from any stricken or threatened area within the
    State if the Governor deems this action necessary.
        (7) To prescribe routes, modes of transportation, and
    destinations in connection with evacuation.
        (8)   To   control   ingress    and   egress   to   and   from   a
    disaster area, the movement of persons within the area,
    and the occupancy of premises therein.
        (9) To     suspend   or limit    the sale,     dispensing,       or
    transportation      of    alcoholic        beverages,     firearms,
    explosives, and combustibles.
        (10) To make provision for the availability and use of
    temporary emergency housing.
        (11) A proclamation of a disaster shall activate the
    State Emergency Operations Plan, and political subdivision
    emergency operations plans applicable to the political
    subdivision or area in question and be authority for the
    deployment and use of any forces that the plan or plans
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    apply   and    for       use    or    distribution        of    any    supplies,
    equipment,         and    materials          and   facilities         assembled,
    stockpiled or arranged to be made available under this Act
    or any other provision of law relating to disasters.
        (12) Control, restrict, and regulate by rationing,
    freezing, use of quotas, prohibitions on shipments, price
    fixing,    allocation          or    other    means,      the   use,    sale    or
    distribution        of   food,       feed,    fuel,      clothing     and    other
    commodities, materials, goods, or services; and perform
    and exercise any other functions, powers, and duties as
    may be necessary to promote and secure the safety and
    protection of the civilian population.
        (13)    During        the       continuance     of    any    disaster      the
    Governor      is    commander-in-chief             of    the    organized      and
    unorganized militia and of all other forces available for
    emergency duty. To the greatest extent practicable, the
    Governor      shall      delegate       or    assign      authority     to     the
    Director to manage, coordinate, and direct all resources
    by orders issued at the time of the disaster.
        (14) Prohibit increases in the prices of goods and
    services during a disaster.
(Source: P.A. 102-485, eff. 8-20-21.)


    (20 ILCS 3305/10) (from Ch. 127, par. 1060)
    Sec. 10. Emergency Services and Disaster Agencies.
    (a) Each political subdivision within this State shall be
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


within      the    jurisdiction         of   and     served    by     the    Illinois
Emergency Management Agency and by an emergency services and
disaster agency responsible for emergency management programs.
A township, if the township is in a county having a population
of more than 2,000,000, must have approval of the county
coordinator        before    establishment         of    a    township      emergency
services and disaster agency.
    (b) Unless multiple county emergency services and disaster
agency consolidation is authorized by the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency with the consent of the respective counties,
each county shall maintain an emergency services and disaster
agency    that     has     jurisdiction       over      and   serves       the   entire
county, except as otherwise provided under this Act and except
that   in    any    county       with   a    population       of    over    3,000,000
containing a municipality with a population of over 500,000
the jurisdiction of the county agency shall not extend to the
municipality when the municipality has established its own
agency.
    (c) Each municipality with a population of over 500,000
shall maintain an emergency services and disaster agency which
has jurisdiction over and serves the entire municipality. A
municipality        with     a    population         less     than     500,000     may
establish, by ordinance, an agency or department responsible
for emergency management within the municipality's corporate
limits.
    (d)      The     Governor       shall      determine           which    municipal
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


corporations, other than those specified in paragraph (c) of
this Section, need emergency services and disaster agencies of
their own and require that they be established and maintained.
The Governor shall make these determinations on the basis of
the municipality's disaster vulnerability and capability of
response related to population size and concentration. The
emergency    services    and   disaster   agency   of   a   county   or
township, shall not have a jurisdiction within a political
subdivision having its own emergency services and disaster
agency, but shall cooperate with the emergency services and
disaster agency of a city, village or incorporated town within
their borders. The Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall
publish and furnish a current list to the municipalities
required to have an emergency services and disaster agency
under this subsection.
    (e) Each municipality that is not required to and does not
have an emergency services and disaster agency shall have a
liaison officer designated to facilitate the cooperation and
protection   of   that   municipal   corporation   with     the   county
emergency services and disaster agency in which it is located
in the work of disaster mitigation, preparedness, response,
and recovery.
    (f) The principal executive officer or his or her designee
of each political subdivision in the State shall annually
notify the Illinois Emergency Management Agency of the manner
in which the political subdivision is providing or securing
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


emergency      management,         identify    the    executive    head     of   the
agency or the department from which the service is obtained,
or the liaison officer in accordance with subsection (e)
paragraph         (d)     of    this    Section      and   furnish      additional
information        relating        thereto    as     the   Illinois      Emergency
Management Agency requires.
    (g) Each emergency services and disaster agency shall
prepare      an    emergency       operations      plan    for   its    geographic
boundaries that complies with planning, review, and approval
standards promulgated by the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency.      The        Illinois    Emergency      Management     Agency     shall
determine which jurisdictions will be required to include
earthquake preparedness in their local emergency operations
plans.
    (h)      The    emergency      services     and    disaster    agency    shall
prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials in written
form     a   clear        and   complete      statement     of    the    emergency
responsibilities of all local departments and officials and of
the disaster chain of command.
    (i) Each emergency services and disaster agency shall have
a   Coordinator          who    shall   be    appointed     by    the    principal
executive officer of the political subdivision in the same
manner as are the heads of regular governmental departments.
If the political subdivision is a county and the principal
executive officer appoints the sheriff as the Coordinator, the
sheriff may, in addition to his or her regular compensation,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


receive compensation at the same level as provided in Article
3 of the Counties Code Section 3 of "An Act in relation to the
regulation of motor vehicle traffic and the promotion of
safety on public highways in counties", approved August 9,
1951,     as    amended.      The     Coordinator        shall     have       direct
responsibility for the organization, administration, training,
and operation of the emergency services and disaster agency,
subject    to    the    direction      and     control    of     that   principal
executive officer. Each emergency services and disaster agency
shall     coordinate      and    may     perform       emergency        management
functions      within   the     territorial      limits     of    the   political
subdivision within which it is organized as are prescribed in
and by the State Emergency Operations Plan, and programs,
orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency and by local ordinance
and, in addition, shall conduct such functions outside of
those territorial limits as may be required under mutual aid
agreements and compacts as are entered into under subparagraph
(5) of paragraph (c) of Section 6.
    (j) In carrying out the provisions of this Act, each
political      subdivision      may    enter    into     contracts      and   incur
obligations necessary to place it in a position effectively to
combat the disasters as are described in Section 4, to protect
the health and safety of persons, to protect property, and to
provide emergency assistance to victims of those disasters. If
a disaster occurs, each political subdivision may exercise the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


powers      vested    under    this     Section        in    the       light    of     the
exigencies      of     the     disaster         and,        excepting          mandatory
constitutional requirements, without regard to the procedures
and formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance     of    public       work,   entering         into       contracts,      the
incurring of obligations, the employment of temporary workers,
the    rental    of    equipment,       the      purchase         of    supplies       and
materials, and the appropriation, expenditure, and disposition
of public funds and property.
      (k)   Volunteers       who,    while      engaged      in    a    disaster,       an
exercise, training related to the emergency operations plan of
the    political      subdivision,         or    a     search-and-rescue              team
response to an occurrence or threat of injury or loss of life
that is beyond local response capabilities, suffer disease,
injury or death, shall, for the purposes of benefits under the
Workers' Compensation Act or Workers' Occupational Diseases
Act only, be deemed to be employees of the State, if: (1) the
claimant is a duly qualified and enrolled (sworn in) as a
volunteer of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency or an
emergency     services       and    disaster     agency       accredited         by    the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency, and (2) if: (i) the
claimant was participating in a disaster as defined in Section
4 of this Act, (ii) the exercise or training participated in
was   specifically       and       expressly     approved         by    the     Illinois
Emergency Management Agency prior to the exercise or training,
or    (iii)   the     search-and-rescue          team       response      was     to    an
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


occurrence or threat of injury or loss of life that was beyond
local response capabilities and was specifically and expressly
approved by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency prior to
the    search-and-rescue              team    response.       The     computation      of
benefits payable under either of those Acts shall be based on
the income commensurate with comparable State employees doing
the    same    type      work    or    income       from     the    person's    regular
employment, whichever is greater.
      Volunteers who are working under the direction of an
emergency      services         and    disaster      agency        accredited   by   the
Illinois      Emergency         Management         Agency,    pursuant     to   a    plan
approved      by    the    Illinois      Emergency         Management     Agency     (i)
during a disaster declared by the Governor under Section 7 of
this    Act,       or    (ii)    in     circumstances         otherwise     expressly
approved by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency, shall be
deemed exclusively employees of the State for purposes of
Section 8(d) of the Court of Claims Act, provided that the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency may, in coordination with
the     emergency          services          and     disaster         agency,       audit
implementation for compliance with the plan.
      (l) If any person who is entitled to receive benefits
through       the       application      of        this    Section      receives,      in
connection with the disease, injury or death giving rise to
such entitlement, benefits under an Act of Congress or federal
program, benefits payable under this Section shall be reduced
to the extent of the benefits received under that other Act or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


program.
    (m) (1) Prior to conducting an exercise, the principal
    executive officer of a political subdivision or his or her
    designee     shall       provide     area     media        with     written
    notification      of    the   exercise.     The    notification          shall
    indicate that information relating to the exercise shall
    not be released to the public until the commencement of
    the    exercise.    The    notification       shall   also    contain       a
    request that the notice be so posted to ensure that all
    relevant    media      personnel    are   advised     of    the    exercise
    before it begins.
          (2) During the conduct of an exercise, all messages,
    two-way radio communications, briefings, status reports,
    news releases, and other oral or written communications
    shall begin and end with the following statement: "This is
    an exercise message".
(Source: P.A. 94-733, eff. 4-27-06.)


    (20 ILCS 3305/12) (from Ch. 127, par. 1062)
    Sec. 12. Testing of Disaster Warning Devices. The testing
of disaster warning devices including outdoor warning sirens
shall be held only on the first Tuesday of each month at 10
o'clock    in   the     morning    or    during       exercises       that    are
specifically and expressly approved in advance by the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency.
(Source: P.A. 92-73, eff. 1-1-02.)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b



     (20 ILCS 3305/14) (from Ch. 127, par. 1064)
     Sec. 14. Communications. The Illinois Emergency Management
Agency     shall      ascertain    what    means       exist    for    rapid    and
efficient communications in times of disaster. The Illinois
Emergency Management Agency shall consider the desirability of
supplementing these communications resources or of integrating
them       into      a    comprehensive          State     or        State-Federal
telecommunications or other communications system or network.
In studying the character and feasibility of any system or its
several parts, the Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall
evaluate       the   possibility    of    multipurpose         use    thereof   for
general State and political subdivision purposes. The Illinois
Emergency Management Agency may promulgate rules to establish
policies and procedures relating to telecommunications and the
continuation of rapid and efficient communications in times of
disaster to the extent authorized by any provision of this Act
or     other      laws   and    regulations.       The    Illinois      Emergency
Management Agency shall make recommendations to the Governor
as appropriate.
(Source: P.A. 86-755; 87-168.)


     (20 ILCS 3305/18) (from Ch. 127, par. 1068)
     Sec. 18. Orders, Rules and Regulations.
     (a)    The      Governor    shall    file    a    copy     of    every    rule,
regulation or order, and any amendment thereof made by the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Governor under the provisions of this Act in the office of the
Secretary of State. No rule, regulation or order, or any
amendment thereof shall be effective until 10 days after the
filing, provided, however, that upon the declaration of a
disaster by the Governor as is described in Section 7 the
provision     relating     to    the    effective     date       of   any    rule,
regulation, order or amendment issued under this Act and
during the state of disaster is abrogated, and the rule,
regulation,     order      or    amendment    shall        become       effective
immediately upon being filed with the Secretary of State
accompanied by a certificate stating the reason as required by
the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act.
    (b)     Every     emergency        services     and        disaster     agency
established pursuant to this Act and the coordinators thereof
shall execute and enforce the orders, rules and regulations as
may be made by the Governor under authority of this Act. Each
emergency services and disaster agency shall have available
for inspection at its office all orders, rules and regulations
made by the Governor, or under the Governor's authority. The
Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall publish on its
furnish on the Department's website the orders, rules and
regulations    to   each    such    emergency     services        and     disaster
agency. Upon the written request of an emergency services or
disaster    agency,     copies     thereof    shall       be    mailed      to   the
emergency services or disaster agency.
(Source: P.A. 98-44, eff. 6-28-13.)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b



    (20 ILCS 3305/23)
    (Section scheduled to be repealed on January 1, 2032)
    Sec. 23. Access and Functional Needs Advisory Committee.
    (a) In this Section, "Advisory Committee" means the Access
and Functional Needs Advisory Committee.
    (b) The Access and Functional Needs Advisory Committee is
created.
    (c) The Advisory Committee shall:
        (1) Coordinate meetings occurring, at a minimum, 3
    times each year, in addition to emergency meetings called
    by the chairperson of the Advisory Committee.
        (2)     Research        and     provide     recommendations      for
    identifying and effectively responding to the needs of
    persons with access and functional needs before, during,
    and after a disaster using an intersectional lens for
    equity.
        (3) Provide recommendations to the Illinois Emergency
    Management Agency regarding how to ensure that persons
    with a disability are included in disaster strategies and
    emergency     management          plans,     including    updates    and
    implementation       of     disaster       strategies    and   emergency
    management plans.
        (4)     Review    and     provide       recommendations    for   the
    Illinois Emergency Management Agency, and all relevant
    State     agencies    that        are   involved   in    drafting    and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    implementing the Illinois Emergency Operation Plan, to
    integrate access and functional needs into State and local
    emergency plans.
    (d)    The   Advisory        Committee       shall      be     composed      of   the
Director of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency or his or
her designee, the Attorney General or his or her designee, the
Secretary   of     Human    Services        or   his     or       her   designee,     the
Director of Aging or his or her designee, and the Director of
Public    Health   or    his     or   her    designee,            together   with     the
following members appointed by the Governor on or before
January 1, 2022:
          (1)    Two     members,       either         from        a    municipal      or
    county-level         emergency        agency       or     a     local    emergency
    management coordinator.
          (2) Nine members from the community of persons with a
    disability who represent persons with different types of
    disabilities, including, but not limited to, individuals
    with    mobility       and    physical       disabilities,            hearing     and
    visual disabilities, deafness or who are hard of hearing,
    blindness       or     who     have      low    vision,             mental   health
    disabilities,          and        intellectual            or         developmental
    disabilities. Members appointed under this paragraph shall
    reflect a diversity of age,                    gender, race, and ethnic
    background.
          (3) Four members who represent first responders from
    different geographical regions around the State.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (e)   Of    those   members   appointed      by   the   Governor,   the
initial appointments of 6 members shall be for terms of 2 years
and the initial appointments of 5 members shall be for terms of
4 years. Thereafter, members shall be appointed for terms of 4
years. A member shall serve until his or her successor is
appointed and qualified. If a vacancy occurs in the Advisory
Committee membership, the vacancy shall be filled in the same
manner as the original appointment for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
    (f) After all the members are appointed, and annually
thereafter, they shall elect a chairperson from among the
members appointed under paragraph (2) of subsection (d).
    (g) The initial meeting of the Advisory Committee shall be
convened by the Director of the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency no later than February 1, 2022.
    (h)    Advisory     Committee    members     shall      serve   without
compensation.
    (i) The Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall provide
administrative support to the Advisory Committee.
    (j) The Advisory Committee shall prepare and deliver a
report to the General Assembly, the Governor's Office, and the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency by July 1, 2022, and
annually thereafter. The report shall include the following:
          (1)   Identification      of   core     emergency     management
    services that need to be updated or changed to ensure the
    needs of persons with a disability are met, and shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    include disaster strategies in State and local emergency
    plans.
          (2) Any proposed changes in State policies, laws,
    rules, or regulations necessary to fulfill the purposes of
    this Act.
          (3) Recommendations on improving the accessibility and
    effectiveness of disaster and emergency communication.
          (4)    Recommendations    on   comprehensive   training   for
    first responders and other frontline workers when working
    with persons with a disability during emergency situations
    or disasters, as defined in Section 4 of the Illinois
    Emergency Management Agency Act.
          (5) Any additional recommendations regarding emergency
    management and persons with a disability that the Advisory
    Committee deems necessary.
    (k)    The    annual   report   prepared   and   delivered   under
subsection (j) shall be annually considered by the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency when developing new State and
local emergency plans or updating existing State and local
emergency plans.
    (l) The Advisory Committee is dissolved and this Section
is repealed on January 1, 2032.
(Source: P.A. 102-361, eff. 8-13-21; 102-671, eff. 11-30-21;
103-154, eff. 6-30-23.)


    Section 5-20. The Arts Council Act is amended by changing
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Section 5 as follows:


      (20 ILCS 3915/5) (from Ch. 127, par. 214.15)
      Sec. 5. The Council may accept offers of gifts or grants
from the federal government, its agencies or officers, or from
any   person,   firm   or   corporation   of   services,   equipment,
supplies, materials or funds and may expend such receipts on
projects which it considers suitable to performance of its
duties under this Act.
      The Illinois Arts Council Federal Grant Fund is created as
a federal trust fund to be held outside the State treasury,
with the State Treasurer as ex officio custodian. The Council
shall deposit all federal moneys received under this Section
into the Illinois Arts Council Federal Grant Fund. Moneys on
deposit in the Illinois Arts Council Federal Grant Fund shall
be used by the Council for the purposes for which those moneys
were received to enhance the arts sector of the State and to
maintain programs authorized by this Act.
      The Illinois Arts Council State Trust Fund is created as a
State trust fund to be held outside the State treasury, with
the State Treasurer as ex officio custodian. The Council shall
deposit into the Illinois Arts Council State Trust Fund all
moneys received under this Section not otherwise required to
be deposited into the Illinois Arts Council Federal Grant
Fund. Moneys on deposit in the Illinois Arts Council State
Trust Fund shall be used by the Council for the purposes for
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


which those moneys were received to enhance the arts sector of
the State and to maintain programs authorized by this Act.
      Moneys on deposit in the Illinois Arts Council Federal
Grant Fund and moneys on deposit in the Illinois Arts Council
State Trust Fund are not subject to sweeps, administrative
chargebacks, or any other fiscal maneuver that would in any
way transfer any amounts into any other fund of the State,
unless required by State or federal law.
(Source: Laws 1965, p. 1965.)


      Section 5-22. The Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Act is amended by changing Section 9.1 as follows:


      (20 ILCS 3930/9.1)
      Sec. 9.1. Criminal Justice Information Projects Fund. The
Criminal Justice Information Projects Fund is hereby created
as a special fund in the State treasury Treasury. Grants and
other    moneys   obtained      by   the   Authority     from    governmental
entities (other than the federal government), private sources,
and   not-for-profit      organizations      for   use    in    investigating
criminal justice issues or undertaking other criminal justice
information projects, or pursuant to the uses identified in
Section 21.10 of the Illinois Lottery Law, shall be deposited
into the Fund. Moneys in the Fund may be used by the Authority,
subject to appropriation, for undertaking such projects and
for     the   operating   and    other     expenses      of    the   Authority
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


incidental to those projects, and for the costs associated
with making grants under Section 9.3 or, in State Fiscal Year
2027, for violence prevention. The moneys deposited into the
Criminal   Justice   Information   Projects   Fund   under   Sections
15-15 and 15-35 of the Criminal and Traffic Assessment Act
shall be appropriated to and administered by the Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority for distribution to
fund Illinois State Police drug task forces and Metropolitan
Enforcement Groups by dividing the funds equally by the total
number of Illinois State Police drug task forces and Illinois
Metropolitan Enforcement Groups. Any interest earned on moneys
in the Fund must be deposited into the Fund.
(Source: P.A. 104-2, eff. 6-16-25.)


    Section 5-25. The State Finance Act is amended by changing
Sections 5.427, 5.623, 5d, 6c, 6z-22, 6z-27, 6z-30, 6z-32,
6z-45, 6z-70, 6z-81, 8.3, 8.12, 8g, 8g-1, and 13.2 and by
adding Sections 5.1038, 6z-149, and 8.58 as follows:


    (30 ILCS 105/5.427)
    (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-458)
    Sec. 5.427. The Electric Vehicle and Charging Rebate Fund.
(Source: P.A. 102-662, eff. 9-15-21.)


    (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-458)
    Sec. 5.427. The Electric Vehicle Rebate and Charging Fund.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


(Source: P.A. 104-458, eff. 6-1-26.)


     (30 ILCS 105/5.623)
     Sec. 5.623. The Illinois Veterans Veterans' Homes Fund.
(Source: P.A. 95-331, eff. 8-21-07.)


     (30 ILCS 105/5.1038 new)
     Sec.      5.1038.    The       State      Facility          Maintenance         and
Improvement Fund.


     (30 ILCS 105/5d) (from Ch. 127, par. 141d)
     (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-457)
     Sec. 5d. Except as provided by Section 5e of this Act, the
State Construction Account Fund shall be used exclusively for
the construction, reconstruction and maintenance of the State
maintained highway system. Except as provided by Section 5e of
this    Act,     none    of   the     money        deposited       in    the     State
Construction Account Fund shall be used to pay the cost of
administering the Motor Fuel Tax Law as now or hereafter
amended, nor be appropriated for use by the Department of
Transportation      to    pay     the       cost    of     its     operations         or
administration, nor be used in any manner for the payment of
regular     or   contractual        employees       of     the    State,       nor    be
transferred or allocated by the Comptroller and Treasurer or
be     otherwise    used,       except       for     the     sole       purpose       of
construction,      reconstruction        and    maintenance         of   the     State
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


maintained highway system as the Illinois General Assembly
shall provide by appropriation from this fund. Beginning with
the month immediately following the effective date of this
amendatory      Act       of      1985,       investment        income        which       is
attributable       to    the      investment        of     moneys       of    the     State
Construction Account Fund shall be retained in that fund for
the uses specified in this Section.
(Source: P.A. 84-431.)


     (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-457)
     Sec. 5d. Except as provided by Section 5e of this Act, the
State Construction Account Fund shall be used exclusively for
the construction, reconstruction and maintenance of the State
maintained highway system. Except as provided by Section 5e of
this    Act,    none         of   the     money      deposited       in       the     State
Construction Account Fund shall be used to pay the cost of
administering the Motor Fuel Tax Law as now or hereafter
amended, nor be appropriated for use by the Department of
Transportation          to     pay     the    cost       of    its   operations           or
administration, nor be used in any manner for the payment of
regular    or   contractual             employees     of       the   State,         nor   be
transferred or allocated by the Comptroller and Treasurer or
be     otherwise        used,        except    for       the     sole        purpose      of
construction,      reconstruction             and   maintenance         of    the     State
maintained highway system as the Illinois General Assembly
shall provide by appropriation from this fund. Beginning with
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the    month     immediately         following    September        16,    1985     (the
effective date of Public Act 84-431) and until June 30, 2026
this    amendatory      Act     of    1985,    investment     income       which     is
attributable       to     the    investment       of    moneys     of     the    State
Construction Account Fund shall be retained in that fund for
the uses specified in this Section. Beginning July 1, 2026, of
the investment income which is attributable to the investment
of moneys of the State Construction Account Fund, 90% 85%
shall     be    deposited       into     the     Northern     Illinois          Transit
Authority       Capital    Improvement         Fund    and   10%    15%    shall     be
deposited       into    the     Downstate      Mass    Transportation           Capital
Improvement Fund.
(Source: P.A. 104-457, eff. 6-1-26.)


      (30 ILCS 105/6c) (from Ch. 127, par. 142c)
      Sec. 6c. All fees and other money received by the Division
of Highways of the Department of Transportation shall, upon
being paid into the State treasury, be placed in the Road Fund.
After July 1, 1981 (the effective date of Public Act 81-1487)
and     until    June     30,    2026    this     amendatory       Act    of     1980,
investment income which is attributable to the investment of
moneys of the Road Fund shall be retained in the Road Fund.
Beginning July 1, 2026, of the investment income which is
attributable to the investment of moneys of the Road Fund, 90%
shall     be    deposited       into     the     Northern     Illinois          Transit
Authority Capital Improvement Fund and 10% shall be deposited
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


into the Downstate Mass Transportation Capital Improvement
Fund.
(Source: P.A. 81-1550.)


    (30 ILCS 105/6z-22) (from Ch. 127, par. 142z-22)
    Sec. 6z-22. All fees or other monies received by the
Guardianship and Advocacy Commission incident to the provision
of legal or guardianship services to eligible persons or wards
pursuant to subsection (i) of Section 5 of the Guardianship
and Advocacy Act shall be paid into the Guardianship and
Advocacy Fund.
    Appropriations for the improvement, development, addition
or expansion of legal and guardianship services for eligible
persons or wards pursuant to Section 5 of the Guardianship and
Advocacy Act or for the financing of any program designed to
provide such improvement, development, addition or expansion
of services or for expenses incurred in administering the
Human Rights Authority, Legal Advocacy Service and Office of
State Guardian are payable from the Guardianship and Advocacy
Fund.
    The Guardianship and Advocacy Commission may receive funds
from any source, public or private, to be used for the purposes
for which those funds were received and as authorized by law,
and such funds shall be deposited into the Guardianship and
Advocacy Fund.
(Source: P.A. 86-448; 86-1028.)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b



    (30 ILCS 105/6z-27)
    Sec. 6z-27. All moneys in the Audit Expense Fund shall be
transferred, appropriated, and used only for the purposes
authorized by, and subject to the limitations and conditions
prescribed by, the Illinois State Auditing Act.
    Within   30   days   after   July   1,   2026   2025,   or   as   soon
thereafter as practical, the State Comptroller shall order
transferred and the State Treasurer shall transfer from the
following funds moneys in the specified amounts for deposit
into the Audit Expense Fund:
Aggregate Operations Regulatory Fund .................... $876
Agricultural Premium Fund ............................           $21,729
Anna Veterans Home Fund ................................ $2,708
Appraisal Administration Fund .......................... $3,248
Attorney General Court Ordered and Voluntary
    Compliance Payment Projects Fund ................            $28,768
Attorney General Whistleblower Reward
    and Protection Fund .................................. $855
Attorney General's State Projects and
    Court Ordered Distribution Fund ..................           $43,967
Bank and Trust Company Fund ..........................           $73,719
Cannabis Business Development Fund .................... $1,524
Cannabis Expungement Fund .............................. $2,022
Capital Development Board
    Revolving Fund .................................... $8,916
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Cemetery Oversight Licensing and
    Disciplinary Fund.................................. $5,310
Chicago State University Education
    Improvement Fund ................................    $16,852
Clean Air Act Permit Fund ............................   $12,095
Coal Technology Development
    Assistance Fund ..................................   $17,367
Commitment to Human Services Fund .................... $170,583
Common School Fund .................................. $391,650
Community Water Supply Laboratory Fund .................. $578
Credit Union Fund ....................................   $15,356
DCFS Children's Services Fund ........................ $257,195
Department of Corrections Reimbursement
    and Education Fund ..............................    $16,614
Department of Juvenile Justice
    Reimbursement and Education Fund .................. $4,354
Design Professionals Administration
    and Investigation Fund ............................ $4,287
Division of Real Estate General Fund .................. $5,294
Downstate Mass Transportation Capital
    Improvement Fund .................................. $1,375
Downstate Public Transportation Fund ................    $24,127
Downstate Transit Improvement Fund ...................... $510
Drivers Education Fund .................................. $619
Drycleaner Environmental Response
    Trust Fund ........................................ $1,164
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Education Assistance Fund .......................... $2,413,507
Electric Vehicle and Charging Fund .................... $9,925
Energy Transition Assistance Fund ....................   $23,305
Environmental Protection Permit and
    Inspection Fund .................................... $7,080
Facilities Management Revolving Fund ................    $11,962
Fair and Exposition Fund ................................ $876
Federal High Speed Rail Trust Fund .................... $1,531
Federal Workforce Training Fund ......................   $56,920
Feed Control Fund ...................................... $1,668
Fertilizer Control Fund ................................ $1,139
Fire Prevention Fund .................................. $5,254
Fund for the Advancement of Education ................   $70,566
Fund for Illinois' Future ............................   $26,055
General Professions Dedicated Fund ..................    $32,756
General Revenue Fund ............................ $17,653,153
Grade Crossing Protection Fund ........................ $4,037
Hazardous Waste Fund .................................. $3,909
Historic Property Administrative Fund .................. $1,027
Horse Racing Fund .................................... $205,483
Illinois Charity Bureau Fund .......................... $2,231
Illinois Clean Water Fund ............................   $12,515
Illinois Forestry Development Fund ..................    $14,202
Illinois Gaming Law Enforcement Fund .................. $1,285
Illinois Health Benefits Exchange Fund ..............    $45,291
IMSA Income Fund ...................................... $6,363
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Illinois Power Agency Operations Fund ................   $73,659
Illinois State Dental Disciplinary Fund ................ $5,454
Illinois State Fair Fund .............................. $9,787
Illinois State Medical Disciplinary Fund ............    $38,129
Illinois State Pharmacy Disciplinary Fund .............. $8,050
Illinois Student Assistance Commission
    Contracts and Grants Fund .......................... $4,547
Illinois Veterans Assistance Fund ...................... $3,745
Illinois Veterans Homes Fund .......................... $2,112
Illinois Wildlife Preservation Fund .................... $1,286
Illinois Works Fund .................................... $4,368
Income Tax Refund Fund .............................. $132,570
Insurance Financial Regulation Fund .................. $113,684
Insurance Premium Tax Refund Fund ....................   $10,199
Insurance Producer Administration Fund .............. $133,253
International Tourism Fund ............................ $1,564
Large Business Attraction Fund ......................    $29,983
LaSalle Veterans Home Fund ..........................    $12,383
Law Enforcement Recruitment and
    Retention Fund ..................................    $49,811
Law Enforcement Training Fund ........................ $194,468
Local Government Distributive Fund ..................    $97,893
Local Tourism Fund .................................... $7,872
Long Term Care Ombudsman Fund ............................ $653
Manteno Veterans Home Fund ..........................    $31,607
Money Laundering Asset Recovery Fund .................... $807
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Motor Carrier Safety Inspection Fund .................. $1,085
Motor Fuel Tax Fund ..................................   $74,475
Northern Illinois Transit Authority Occupation
    and Use Tax Replacement Fund ...................... $1,798
Nursing Dedicated and Professional Fund ..............   $16,592
Open Space Lands Acquisition
    and Development Fund ............................    $98,926
Optometric Licensing and Disciplinary
    Board Fund ........................................ $3,002
Parity Advancement Fund ................................ $4,531
Partners for Conservation Fund ......................    $21,665
Personal Property Tax Replacement Fund ..............    $97,893
Pesticide Control Fund ................................ $6,362
Professional Services Fund ............................ $2,760
Professions Indirect Cost Fund ......................    $89,111
Public Pension Regulation Fund ........................ $3,045
Public Transportation Fund ..........................    $61,100
Quincy Veterans Home Fund ............................   $45,480
Real Estate License Administration Fund ..............   $17,845
Real Estate Research and Education Fund .................. $643
Rebuild Illinois Projects Fund ......................    $16,976
Registered Certified Public Accountants'
    Administration and Disciplinary Fund .............. $5,895
Renewable Energy Resources Trust Fund .................. $1,392
Residential Finance Regulatory Fund ..................   $19,443
Road Fund ............................................ $379,782
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Savings Bank Regulatory Fund ............................ $534
School Infrastructure Fund ............................ $7,158
Solid Waste Management Fund ..........................   $13,188
Sound-Reducing Windows and Doors
    Replacement Fund .................................... $724
Sports Wagering Fund ................................    $11,518
State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund .................. $3,148
State Asset Forfeiture Fund ............................ $1,153
State Aviation Program Fund ............................ $2,472
State Construction Account Fund ......................   $97,561
State Crime Laboratory Fund ............................ $8,121
State Gaming Fund .................................... $176,882
State Garage Revolving Fund ............................ $3,039
State Lottery Fund .................................. $120,030
State Pensions Fund .................................. $500,000
State Police Firearm Enforcement Fund .................... $815
State Police Firearm Services Fund .................... $4,320
State Police Law Enforcement Administration Fund ...... $6,988
State Police Services Fund ..........................    $21,688
State Police Training and Academy Fund ................ $2,933
State Police Vehicle Fund .............................. $4,341
State Police Whistleblower Reward and
    Protection Fund .................................... $2,879
State Small Business Credit Initiative Fund ..........   $20,817
State's Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor's
    County Fund ......................................   $12,478
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Subtitle D Management Fund ............................ $1,506
Supplemental Low-Income Energy
    Assistance Fund ..................................   $40,493
Tax Compliance and Administration Fund ................ $4,170
Technology Management Revolving Fund ................ $475,678
Tourism Promotion Fund ..............................    $39,959
Traffic and Criminal Conviction Surcharge Fund ......    $81,759
Underground Storage Tank Fund ........................   $22,458
Vehicle Inspection Fund ..............................   $15,467
Violent Crime Victims Assistance Fund .................. $6,561
Weights and Measures Fund .............................. $6,392
Workforce, Technology, and Economic
    Development Fund .................................. $4,444
Academic Quality Assurance Fund .......................... $940
African-American HIV/AIDS Response Fund ................ $4,266
Agricultural Premium Fund ............................ $169,467
Alzheimer's Awareness Fund ............................ $1,068
Alzheimer's Disease Research,
    Care, and Support Fund .............................. $502
Amusement Ride and Patron Safety Fund .................. $6,888
Assisted Living and Shared
    Housing Regulatory Fund ............................ $4,011
Board of Higher Education State
    Contracts and Grants Fund ........................   $13,416
Capital Development Board Revolving Fund ............    $10,711
Care Provider Fund for Persons with
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    a Developmental Disability ........................ $9,771
CDLIS/AAMVA/NMVTIS Trust Fund .......................... $3,433
Chicago State University Education
    Improvement Fund ................................    $15,774
Child Labor and Day and Temporary
    Labor Services Enforcement Fund ..................   $15,414
Child Support Administrative Fund ...................... $3,739
Coal Technology Development
    Assistance Fund .................................... $3,019
Common School Fund .................................. $246,578
Community Mental Health
    Medicaid Trust Fund ..............................   $10,597
Consumer Intervenor Compensation Fund .................. $1,700
Death Certificate Surcharge Fund ...................... $1,550
Death Penalty Abolition Fund .......................... $2,688
Department of Business Services
    Special Operations Fund ..........................   $10,406
Department of Human Services
    Community Services Fund ..........................   $15,086
Dram Shop Fund ...................................... $212,500
Driver Services Administration Fund ...................... $937
Drug Rebate Fund ....................................    $54,214
Drug Treatment Fund .................................... $1,236
Education Assistance Fund .......................... $2,193,017
Emergency Planning and Training Fund .................... $528
Emergency Public Health Fund .......................... $8,769
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Employee Classification Fund ............................ $967
EMS Assistance Fund .................................... $1,150
Estate Tax Refund Fund ................................ $1,628
Facilities Management Revolving Fund ................    $35,073
Facility Licensing Fund ................................ $6,082
Fair and Exposition Fund .............................. $6,903
Federal Financing Cost
    Reimbursement Fund ................................ $7,100
Feed Control Fund ....................................   $13,874
Fertilizer Control Fund ................................ $9,357
Fire Prevention Fund .................................. $4,282
General Assembly Technology Fund ...................... $2,830
General Professions Dedicated Fund .................... $4,131
General Revenue Fund ............................ $17,653,153
Governor's Administrative Fund ........................ $5,956
Governor's Grant Fund .................................. $3,164
Grant Accountability and Transparency Fund ............ $1,041
Guardianship and Advocacy Fund ......................    $16,432
Health Facility Plan Review Fund ...................... $2,286
Health and Human Services
    Medicaid Trust Fund ..............................   $10,902
Healthcare Provider Relief Fund ...................... $321,428
Home Care Services Agency Licensure Fund .............. $2,843
Hospital Licensure Fund ................................ $1,251
Hospital Provider Fund ..............................    $99,530
Illinois Affordable Housing Trust Fund ..............    $19,809
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Illinois Community College Board
    Contracts and Grants Fund ........................   $14,687
Illinois Health Facilities Planning Fund .............. $3,155
Illinois Independent Tax Tribunal Fund ..............    $11,636
IMSA Income Fund ...................................... $6,805
Illinois School Asbestos Abatement Fund ................ $1,141
Illinois State Fair Fund ............................    $69,621
Illinois Telecommunications Access
    Corporation Fund .................................. $1,546
Illinois Underground Utility
    Facilities Damage Prevention Fund ................   $12,035
Illinois Veterans' Rehabilitation Fund ................ $1,103
Illinois Workers' Compensation
    Commission Operations Fund ...................... $241,658
Industrial Hemp Regulatory Fund ........................ $1,407
Interpreters for the Deaf Fund ........................ $8,657
Lead Poisoning Screening, Prevention,
    and Abatement Fund ..............................    $19,789
Lobbyist Registration Administration Fund ................ $843
Long Term Care Monitor/Receiver Fund ................    $42,485
Long-Term Care Provider Fund ........................    $20,620
Low-Level Radioactive Waste Facility
    Development and Operation Fund .................... $2,402
Mandatory Arbitration Fund ............................ $2,635
Mental Health Fund .................................... $5,353
Mental Health Reporting Fund .......................... $1,226
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Metabolic Screening and Treatment Fund ..............    $46,885
Monitoring Device Driving Permit
    Administration Fee Fund ............................ $1,475
Motor Fuel Tax Fund .................................... $1,068
Motor Vehicle License Plate Fund ....................    $13,927
Multiple Sclerosis Research Fund ........................ $961
Nuclear Safety Emergency Preparedness Fund ..........    $87,774
Nursing Dedicated and Professional Fund .................. $595
Partners For Conservation Fund ...................... $117,108
Personal Property Tax Replacement Fund .............. $218,128
Pesticide Control Fund ..............................    $42,146
Plumbing Licensure and Program Fund .................... $3,672
Private Business and Vocational Schools
    Quality Assurance Fund .............................. $867
Professional Services Fund ..........................    $90,610
Public Defender Fund .................................. $6,198
Public Health Laboratory
    Services Revolving Fund ............................ $1,098
Public Utility Fund .................................. $282,488
Radiation Protection Fund ............................   $37,946
Rebuild Illinois Projects Fund ......................    $58,858
Rental Housing Support Program Fund .................... $4,083
Road Fund ............................................   $55,409
Secretary Of State DUI Administration Fund ............ $2,767
Secretary Of State Identification Security
    and Theft Prevention Fund ........................   $16,793
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Secretary Of State Special License Plate Fund .......... $3,473
Secretary Of State Special Services Fund ............    $26,832
Securities Audit and Enforcement Fund .................. $4,889
Serve Illinois Commission Fund ........................ $1,803
Special Education Medicaid Matching Fund .............. $4,329
State Gaming Fund ...................................... $1,997
State Garage Revolving Fund ............................ $7,501
State Lottery Fund .................................. $311,489
State Pensions Fund .................................. $500,000
State Treasurer's Bank Services Trust Fund .............. $752
Supreme Court Special Purposes Fund .................... $4,184
Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishment
    Registration Fund.................................. $1,166
Tobacco Settlement Recovery Fund .................... $143,143
Tourism Promotion Fund ..............................    $79,695
Transportation Regulatory Fund ...................... $108,481
Trauma Center Fund .................................... $1,872
University Of Illinois Hospital Services Fund .......... $5,476
Vehicle Hijacking and Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention and
    Insurance Verification Trust Fund .................. $9,331
Vehicle Inspection Fund ................................ $2,786
Weights and Measures Fund ............................   $24,640
    Notwithstanding any provision of the law to the contrary,
the General Assembly hereby authorizes the use of such funds
for the purposes set forth in this Section.
    These provisions do not apply to funds classified by the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Comptroller as federal trust funds or State trust funds. The
Audit Expense Fund may receive transfers from those trust
funds only as directed herein, except where prohibited by the
terms of the trust fund agreement. The Auditor General shall
notify the trustees of those funds of the estimated cost of the
audit to be incurred under the Illinois State Auditing Act for
the fund. The trustees of those funds shall direct the State
Comptroller and Treasurer to transfer the estimated amount to
the Audit Expense Fund.
    The Auditor General may bill entities that are not subject
to the above transfer provisions, including private entities,
related organizations and entities whose funds are locally
held, for the cost of audits, studies, and investigations
incurred on their behalf. Any revenues received under this
provision shall be deposited into the Audit Expense Fund.
    In the event that moneys on deposit in any fund are
unavailable, by reason of deficiency or any other reason
preventing their lawful transfer, the State Comptroller shall
order transferred and the State Treasurer shall transfer the
amount deficient or otherwise unavailable from the General
Revenue Fund for deposit into the Audit Expense Fund.
    On   or   before   December    1,   1992,   and   each   December   1
thereafter, the Auditor General shall notify the Governor's
Office   of   Management   and    Budget   (formerly    Bureau   of   the
Budget) of the amount estimated to be necessary to pay for
audits, studies, and investigations in accordance with the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Illinois State Auditing Act during the next succeeding fiscal
year for each State fund for which a transfer or reimbursement
is anticipated.
      Beginning with fiscal year 1994 and during each fiscal
year thereafter, the Auditor General may direct the State
Comptroller     and   Treasurer     to    transfer   moneys   from      funds
authorized by the General Assembly for that fund. In the event
funds, including federal and State trust funds but excluding
the General Revenue Fund, are transferred, during fiscal year
1994 and during each fiscal year thereafter, in excess of the
amount to pay actual costs attributable to audits, studies,
and investigations as permitted or required by the Illinois
State Auditing Act or specific action of the General Assembly,
the   Auditor   General    shall,    on    September   30,    or   as    soon
thereafter as is practicable, direct the State Comptroller and
Treasurer to transfer the excess amount back to the fund from
which it was originally transferred.
(Source:   P.A.   103-8,    eff.    6-7-23;     103-129,   eff.    6-30-23;
103-588,   eff.   6-5-24;   104-2,       eff.   6-16-25;   104-453,      eff.
12-12-25.)


      (30 ILCS 105/6z-30)
      Sec. 6z-30. University of Illinois Hospital Services Fund.
      (a) The University of Illinois Hospital Services Fund is
created as a special fund in the State treasury Treasury. The
following moneys shall be deposited into the Fund:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        (1) (Blank).
        (1.5) (Blank).
        (1.7) (Blank).
        (1.8) Starting in fiscal year 2022 and through fiscal
    year 2026, at the direction of and upon notification from
    the Director of Healthcare and Family Services, the State
    Comptroller shall direct and the State Treasurer shall
    transfer   an    amount      of    at    least    $20,000,000        but   not
    exceeding a total of $55,000,000 from the General Revenue
    Fund to the University of Illinois Hospital Services Fund
    in each fiscal year.
        (1.9) Beginning in State Fiscal Year 2027, at the
    direction of and upon notification from the Director of
    Healthcare    and     Family      Services,      the    State     Comptroller
    shall direct and the State Treasurer shall transfer in
    each fiscal year at least $20,000,000 but not more than
    $65,000,000      from    the      General      Revenue       Fund    to    the
    University of Illinois Hospital Services Fund.
        (2) All intergovernmental transfer payments to the
    Department    of      Healthcare        and   Family     Services     by   the
    University       of      Illinois         made         pursuant      to     an
    intergovernmental agreement under subsection (b) or (c) of
    Section 5A-3 of the Illinois Public Aid Code.
        (3)    All     federal     matching       funds      received    by    the
    Department of Healthcare and Family Services (formerly
    Illinois     Department      of    Public      Aid)     as   a    result    of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    expenditures made by the Department that are attributable
    to moneys that were deposited into in the Fund.
        (4) All other moneys received for the Fund from any
    other source, including interest earned thereon.
    (b) Moneys in the fund may be used by the Department of
Healthcare and Family Services, subject to appropriation and
to an interagency agreement between that Department and the
Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois, to reimburse
the University of Illinois Hospital for hospital and pharmacy
services, to reimburse practitioners who are employed by the
University    of    Illinois,   to   reimburse     other   health   care
facilities and health plans operated by the University of
Illinois, and to pass through to the University of Illinois
federal financial participation earned by the State as a
result of expenditures made by the University of Illinois.
    (c) (Blank).
(Source: P.A. 102-699, eff. 4-19-22.)


    (30 ILCS 105/6z-32)
    Sec. 6z-32. Partners for Planning and Conservation.
    (a) The Partners for Conservation Fund (formerly known as
the Conservation 2000 Fund) and the Partners for Conservation
Projects     Fund   (formerly   known   as   the    Conservation    2000
Projects Fund) are created as special funds in the State
treasury Treasury. These funds shall be used to establish a
comprehensive program to protect Illinois' natural resources
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


through cooperative partnerships between State government and
public and private landowners. Moneys in these Funds may be
used, subject to appropriation, by the Department of Natural
Resources, Environmental Protection Agency, and the Department
of    Agriculture      for   purposes    relating        to    natural     resource
protection, planning, recreation, tourism, climate resilience,
and     compatible        agricultural       and        economic        development
activities. Without limiting these general purposes, moneys in
these Funds may be used, subject to appropriation, for the
following specific purposes:
          (1) To foster sustainable agriculture practices and
      control soil erosion, sedimentation, and nutrient loss
      from     farmland,     including      grants       to    Soil     and    Water
      Conservation         Districts        for    conservation           practice
      cost-share       grants   and   for    personnel,        educational,     and
      administrative expenses.
          (2) To establish and protect a system of ecosystems in
      public     and     private      ownership         through       conservation
      easements, incentives to public and private landowners,
      natural     resource      restoration       and    preservation,         water
      quality protection and improvement, land use and watershed
      planning,     technical      assistance      and        grants,    and    land
      acquisition provided these mechanisms are all voluntary on
      the part of the landowner and do not involve the use of
      eminent domain.
          (3) To develop a systematic and long-term program to
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    effectively      measure     and      monitor    natural    resources       and
    ecological conditions through investments in technology
    and involvement of scientific experts.
          (4)   To   initiate      strategies        to    enhance,    use,     and
    maintain       Illinois'       inland        lakes     through    education,
    technical assistance, research, and financial incentives.
          (5) To partner with private landowners and with units
    of    State,     federal,       and     local        government    and     with
    not-for-profit organizations in order to integrate State
    and   federal       programs    with     Illinois'       natural    resource
    protection       and      restoration          efforts     and      to     meet
    requirements        to   obtain       federal    and     other    funds     for
    conservation or protection of natural resources.
          (6) To support the State's Nutrient Loss Reduction
    Strategy,      including,      but     not    limited     to,    funding    the
    resources needed to support the Strategy's Policy Working
    Group,      cover    water   quality         monitoring    in     support    of
    Strategy implementation, prepare a biennial report on the
    progress made on the Strategy every 2 years, and provide
    cost share funding for nutrient capture projects.
          (7) To provide capacity grants to support soil and
    water conservation districts, including, but not limited
    to, developing soil health plans, conducting soil health
    assessments,             peer-to-peer           training,          convening
    producer-led        dialogues,        professional       memberships,       lab
    analysis, and travel stipends for meetings and educational
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    events.
         (8)   To    develop    guidelines    and      local   soil   health
    assessments for advancing soil health.
    (b) The State Comptroller and the State Treasurer shall
automatically       transfer    on   the   last   day     of   each   month,
beginning on September 30, 1995 and ending on June 30, 2027
2026,   from   the    General   Revenue    Fund   to     the   Partners   for
Conservation Fund, an amount equal to 1/10 of the amount set
forth below in fiscal year 1996 and an amount equal to 1/12 of
the amount set forth below in each of the other specified
fiscal years:
Fiscal Year                                         Amount
1996                                                $ 3,500,000
1997                                                $ 9,000,000
1998                                                $10,000,000
1999                                                $11,000,000
2000                                                $12,500,000
2001 through 2004                                   $14,000,000
2005                                                $7,000,000
2006                                                $11,000,000
2007                                                $0
2008 through 2011                                   $14,000,000
2012                                                $12,200,000
2013 through 2017                                   $14,000,000
2018                                                $1,500,000
2019                                                $14,000,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


2020                                                    $7,500,000
2021 through 2023                                       $14,000,000
2024                                                    $18,000,000
2025 through 2027 and 2026                              $14,000,000
     (c) The State Comptroller and the State Treasurer shall
automatically transfer on the last day of each month beginning
on     July    31,    2021    and    ending    June    30,    2022,   from    the
Environmental Protection Permit and Inspection Fund to the
Partners for Conservation Fund, an amount equal to 1/12 of
$4,135,000.
     (c-1) The State Comptroller and the State Treasurer shall
automatically transfer on the last day of each month beginning
on     July    31,    2022    and    ending    June    30,    2023,   from    the
Environmental Protection Permit and Inspection Fund to the
Partners for Conservation Fund, an amount equal to 1/12 of
$5,900,000.
     (d)      There   shall    be    deposited    into       the   Partners   for
Conservation Projects Fund such bond proceeds and other moneys
as may, from time to time, be provided by law.
(Source:       P.A.   103-8,    eff.    6-7-23;       103-494,     eff.   8-4-23;
103-588,       eff.   6-5-24;       103-605,   eff.    7-1-24;      104-2,    eff.
6-16-25.)


     (30 ILCS 105/6z-45)
     Sec. 6z-45. The School Infrastructure Fund.
     (a) The School Infrastructure Fund is created as a special
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


fund in the State treasury Treasury.
     In addition to any other deposits authorized by law,
beginning January 1, 2000, on the first day of each month, or
as soon thereafter as may be practical, the State Treasurer
and State Comptroller shall transfer the sum of $5,000,000
from the General Revenue Fund to the School Infrastructure
Fund, except that, notwithstanding any other provision of law,
and in addition to any other transfers that may be provided for
by   law,   before   June   30,   2012,   the   Comptroller   and   the
Treasurer shall transfer $45,000,000 from the General Revenue
Fund into the School Infrastructure Fund, and, for fiscal year
2013 only, the Treasurer and the Comptroller shall transfer
$1,250,000    from   the    General   Revenue   Fund   to   the   School
Infrastructure Fund on the first day of each month; provided,
however, that no such transfers shall be made during the
period from July 1, 2001 through June 30, 2003 or during the
period from July 1, 2026 through June 30, 2027.
     (a-5) Money in the School Infrastructure Fund may be used
to pay the expenses of the State Board of Education, the
Governor's Office of Management and Budget, and the Capital
Development Board in administering programs under the School
Construction Law, the total expenses not to exceed $1,315,000
in any fiscal year.
     (b) Subject to the transfer provisions set forth below,
money in the School Infrastructure Fund shall, if and when the
State of Illinois incurs any bonded indebtedness for the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


construction of school improvements under subsection (e) of
Section 5 of the General Obligation Bond Act, be set aside and
used for the purpose of paying and discharging annually the
principal and interest on that bonded indebtedness then due
and payable, and for no other purpose.
      In addition to other transfers to the General Obligation
Bond Retirement and Interest Fund made pursuant to Section 15
of the General Obligation Bond Act, upon each delivery of
bonds issued for construction of school improvements under the
School Construction Law, the State Comptroller shall compute
and   certify     to     the    State   Treasurer    the    total    amount   of
principal of, interest on, and premium, if any, on such bonds
during the then current and each succeeding fiscal year. With
respect to the interest payable on variable rate bonds, such
certifications shall be calculated at the maximum rate of
interest that may be payable during the fiscal year, after
taking into account any credits permitted in the related
indenture or other instrument against the amount of such
interest required to be appropriated for that period.
      On   or   before    the    last   day   of    each   month,    the   State
Treasurer and State Comptroller shall transfer from the School
Infrastructure Fund to the General Obligation Bond Retirement
and Interest Fund an amount sufficient to pay the aggregate of
the principal of, interest on, and premium, if any, on the
bonds payable on their next payment date, divided by the
number     of   monthly        transfers   occurring       between   the    last
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


previous payment date (or the delivery date if no payment date
has   yet     occurred)     and      the     next    succeeding       payment    date.
Interest payable on variable rate bonds shall be calculated at
the maximum rate of interest that may be payable for the
relevant      period,      after      taking        into    account    any    credits
permitted in the related indenture or other instrument against
the amount of such interest required to be appropriated for
that period. Interest for which moneys have already been
deposited into the capitalized interest account within the
General Obligation Bond Retirement and Interest Fund shall not
be    included     in    the        calculation       of     the   amounts      to   be
transferred under this subsection.
      (b-5) The money deposited into the School Infrastructure
Fund from transfers pursuant to subsections (c-30) and (c-35)
of Section 13 of the Illinois Gambling Act shall be applied,
without further direction, as provided in subsection (b-3) of
Section 5-35 of the School Construction Law.
      (b-7) (Blank). In fiscal year 2021 only, of the surplus,
if any, in the School Infrastructure Fund after payments made
pursuant to subsections (a-5), (b), and (b-5) of this Section,
$20,000,000 shall be transferred to the General Revenue Fund.
      (c) The surplus, if any, in the School Infrastructure Fund
after payments made pursuant to subsections (a-5), (b), and
(b-5),      and    (b-7)       of     this     Section       shall,       subject    to
appropriation, be used as follows:
      First    -   to   make    3    payments        to    the   School    Technology
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Revolving Loan Fund as follows:
          Transfer of $30,000,000 in fiscal year 1999;
          Transfer of $20,000,000 in fiscal year 2000; and
          Transfer of $10,000,000 in fiscal year 2001.
    Second - to pay any amounts due for grants for school
construction projects under the School Construction Law.
    Third - to pay any amounts due for grants for school
maintenance projects under the School Construction Law.
(Source: P.A. 101-31, eff. 6-28-19; 101-636, eff. 6-10-20;
102-723, eff. 5-6-22.)


    (30 ILCS 105/6z-70)
    Sec. 6z-70. The Secretary of State Identification Security
and Theft Prevention Fund.
    (a) The Secretary of State Identification Security and
Theft Prevention Fund is created as a special fund in the State
treasury.    The    Fund     shall   consist    of   any   fund   transfers,
grants, fees, or moneys from other sources received for the
purpose     of     funding     identification        security     and   theft
prevention measures.
    (b) All moneys in the Secretary of State Identification
Security and Theft Prevention Fund shall be used, subject to
appropriation,       for     any     costs     related     to   implementing
identification security and theft prevention measures.
    (c) (Blank).
    (d) (Blank).
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (e) (Blank).
    (f) (Blank).
    (g) (Blank).
    (h) (Blank).
    (i) (Blank).
    (j) (Blank).
    (k) (Blank).
    (l) (Blank).
    (m) (Blank).
    (n) (Blank).
    (o) (Blank).
    (p) (Blank).
    (q) Notwithstanding any other provision of State law to
the contrary, on or after July 1, 2024, and until June 30,
2025, in addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for by law, at the direction of and upon notification of the
Secretary of State, the State Comptroller shall direct and the
State Treasurer shall transfer amounts into the Secretary of
State Identification Security and Theft Prevention Fund from
the designated funds not exceeding the following totals:
    Division of Corporations Registered Limited
        Liability Partnership Fund .................. $400,000
    Department of Business Services Special
        Operations Fund............................ $5,500,000
    Securities Audit and Enforcement Fund .......... $4,000,000
    Corporate Franchise Tax Refund Fund ............ $3,000,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (r) Notwithstanding any other provision of State law to
the contrary, on or after July 1, 2025, and until June 30,
2026, in addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for by law, at the direction of and upon notification of the
Secretary of State, the State Comptroller shall direct and the
State Treasurer shall transfer amounts into the Secretary of
State Identification Security and Theft Prevention Fund from
the designated funds not exceeding the following totals:
    Division of Corporations Registered Limited
        Liability Partnership Fund .................. $400,000
    Department of Business Services Special
        Operations Fund............................ $5,500,000
    Securities Audit and Enforcement Fund .......... $4,000,000
    Corporate Franchise Tax Refund Fund ............ $3,000,000
    Notwithstanding any other provision of State law to the
contrary, on or after July 1, 2026, and through June 30, 2027,
in addition to any other transfers that may be provided for by
law,   at   the   direction   of   and   upon   notification   of   the
Secretary of State, the State Comptroller shall direct and the
State Treasurer shall transfer amounts into the Secretary of
State Identification Security and Theft Prevention Fund from
the designated funds not exceeding the following totals:
    Lobbyist Registration Administration Fund ...... $1,000,000
    Division of Corporations Registered Limited
        Liability Partnership Fund .................. $400,000
    Department of Business Services Special
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        Operations Fund.......................... $11,500,000
    Securities Audit and Enforcement Fund .......... $4,000,000
    Corporate Franchise Tax Refund Fund ............ $3,000,000
(Source: P.A. 103-8, eff. 6-7-23; 103-588, eff. 6-5-24; 104-2,
eff. 6-16-25.)


    (30 ILCS 105/6z-81)
    Sec. 6z-81. Healthcare Provider Relief Fund.
    (a) There is created in the State treasury a special fund
to be known as the Healthcare Provider Relief Fund.
    (b) The Fund is created for the purpose of receiving and
disbursing    moneys    in    accordance      with   this      Section.
Disbursements from the Fund shall be made only as follows:
        (1)   Subject   to   appropriation,    for   payment    by   the
    Department of Healthcare and Family Services or by the
    Department of Human Services of medical bills, grants, and
    related expenses, including administrative expenses, for
    which the State is responsible under Titles XIX and XXI of
    the Social Security Act, the Illinois Public Aid Code, the
    Children's Health Insurance Program Act, the Covering ALL
    KIDS Health Insurance Act, and the Long Term Acute Care
    Hospital Quality Improvement Transfer Program Act.
        (2) For repayment of funds borrowed from other State
    funds or from outside sources, including interest thereon.
        (3) For making payments to the human poison control
    center pursuant to Section 12-4.105 of the Illinois Public
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Aid Code.
        (4) For making necessary transfers to other State
    funds to deposit Home and Community-Based Services federal
    matching revenue received as a result of the enhancement
    to the federal medical assistance percentage authorized by
    Section 9817 of the federal American Rescue Plan Act of
    2021.
    (c) The Fund shall consist of the following:
        (1)   Moneys    received   by   the    State    from   short-term
    borrowing pursuant to the Short Term Borrowing Act on or
    after the effective date of Public Act 96-820.
        (2)     All   federal   matching      funds    received   by   the
    Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services as a
    result of expenditures made by the Department that are
    attributable to moneys deposited into in the Fund.
        (3)     All   federal   matching      funds    received   by   the
    Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services as a
    result    of   federal   approval   of     Title    XIX    State   plan
    amendment transmittal number 07-09.
        (3.5) Proceeds from the assessment authorized under
    Article V-H of the Illinois Public Aid Code.
        (4) All other moneys received for the Fund from any
    other source, including interest earned thereon.
        (5)     All   federal   matching      funds    received   by   the
    Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services as a
    result of expenditures made by the Department for Medical
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Assistance from the General Revenue Fund, the Tobacco
    Settlement    Recovery     Fund,    the    Long-Term    Care    Provider
    Fund, and the Drug Rebate Fund related to individuals
    eligible for medical assistance pursuant to the Patient
    Protection and Affordable Care Act (P.L. 111-148) and
    Section 5-2 of the Illinois Public Aid Code.
    (d)   In   addition   to   any     other    transfers    that    may   be
provided for by law, on the effective date of Public Act 97-44,
or as soon thereafter as practical, the State Comptroller
shall direct and the State Treasurer shall transfer the sum of
$365,000,000 from the General Revenue Fund into the Healthcare
Provider Relief Fund.
    (e)   In   addition   to   any     other    transfers    that    may   be
provided for by law, on July 1, 2011, or as soon thereafter as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer the sum of $160,000,000 from the
General Revenue Fund to the Healthcare Provider Relief Fund.
    (f) Notwithstanding any other State law to the contrary,
and in addition to any other transfers that may be provided for
by law, the State Comptroller shall order transferred and the
State Treasurer shall transfer $500,000,000 to the Healthcare
Provider Relief Fund from the General Revenue Fund in equal
monthly installments of $100,000,000, with the first transfer
to be made on July 1, 2012, or as soon thereafter as practical,
and with each of the remaining transfers to be made on August
1, 2012, September 1, 2012, October 1, 2012, and November 1,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


2012, or as soon thereafter as practical. This transfer may
assist the Department of Healthcare and Family Services in
improving Medical Assistance bill processing timeframes or in
meeting the possible requirements of Senate Bill 3397, or
other similar legislation, of the 97th General Assembly should
it become law.
    (g) Notwithstanding any other State law to the contrary,
and in addition to any other transfers that may be provided for
by law, on July 1, 2013, or as soon thereafter as may be
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer the sum of $601,000,000 from the
General Revenue Fund to the Healthcare Provider Relief Fund.
(Source:   P.A.   101-9,   eff.   6-5-19;   101-650,   eff.   7-7-20;
102-699, eff. 4-19-22.)


    (30 ILCS 105/6z-149 new)
    Sec. 6z-149. State Facility Maintenance and Improvement
Fund.
    (a) As used in this Section:
    "Public institutions of higher education" has the meaning
given to that term in the Board of Higher Education Act.
    "State agency" means, whether used in the singular or the
plural,    all    officers,    agencies,     departments,     boards,
commissions, authorities, institutions, and bodies politic and
corporate of the executive branch of State government created
by or in accordance with the constitution or statute.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (b) The State Facility Maintenance and Improvement Fund is
established as a special fund in the State treasury. The Fund
shall receive revenues as specified in Section 60 of the Video
Gaming Act. The Fund may also receive deposits, transfers, or
revenues from any source, public or private, as otherwise
authorized or provided by law.
    Subject   to   appropriation,   moneys   held   in   the   State
Facility Maintenance and Improvement Fund may be used by State
agencies and public institutions of higher education (1) to
pay routine costs incurred to repair, maintain, replace, or
otherwise keep in proper condition and good working order any
part of a facility or real property owned or leased by a State
agency or public institution of higher education; (2) to pay
for the installation, repair, or replacement of equipment
necessary to the function of a facility owned or leased by a
State agency or public institution of higher education; and
(3) to pay the costs of making permanent improvements to a
facility or real property owned or leased by a State agency or
public institution of higher education.


    (30 ILCS 105/8.3)
    (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-457 and
104-458)
    Sec. 8.3. Money in the Road Fund shall, if and when the
State of Illinois incurs any bonded indebtedness for the
construction of permanent highways, be set aside and used for
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the purpose of paying and discharging annually the principal
and interest on that bonded indebtedness then due and payable,
and for no other purpose. The surplus, if any, in the Road Fund
after the payment of principal and interest on that bonded
indebtedness then annually due shall be used as follows:
        first -- to pay the cost of administration of Chapters
    2 through 10 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, except the cost
    of administration of Articles I and II of Chapter 3 of that
    Code,   and   to     pay       the    costs      of    the    Executive        Ethics
    Commission for oversight and administration of the Chief
    Procurement    Officer          appointed        under       paragraph        (2)    of
    subsection     (a)        of     Section         10-20       of      the     Illinois
    Procurement Code for transportation; and
        secondly        --    for        expenses      of     the        Department      of
    Transportation            for         construction,               reconstruction,
    improvement,         repair,           maintenance,             operation,          and
    administration           of    highways       in       accordance           with    the
    provisions of laws relating thereto, or for any purpose
    related or incident to and connected therewith, including
    the separation of grades of those highways with railroads
    and with highways and including the payment of awards made
    by the Illinois Workers' Compensation Commission under the
    terms   of    the    Workers'          Compensation          Act       or    Workers'
    Occupational       Diseases          Act   for    injury        or    death    of    an
    employee of the Division of Highways in the Department of
    Transportation; or for the acquisition of land and the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    erection of buildings for highway purposes, including the
    acquisition of highway right-of-way or for investigations
    to determine the reasonably anticipated future highway
    needs; or for making of surveys, plans, specifications and
    estimates for and in the construction and maintenance of
    flight strips and of highways necessary to provide access
    to military and naval reservations, to defense industries
    and defense-industry sites, and to the sources of raw
    materials and for replacing existing highways and highway
    connections shut off from general public use at military
    and naval reservations and defense-industry sites, or for
    the purchase of right-of-way, except that the State shall
    be reimbursed in full for any expense incurred in building
    the flight strips; or for the operating and maintaining of
    highway garages; or for patrolling and policing the public
    highways and conserving the peace; or for the operating
    expenses of the Department relating to the administration
    of public transportation programs; or, during fiscal year
    2025,    for       the      purposes    of   a   grant    not   to     exceed
    $10,020,000 to the Regional Transportation Authority on
    behalf      of     PACE     for   the    purpose    of    ADA/Para-transit
    expenses; or, during fiscal year 2026, for the purposes of
    a   grant        not   to    exceed     $11,500,000      to   the    Regional
    Transportation Authority on behalf of PACE for the purpose
    of ADA/Para-transit expenses; or, during fiscal year 2027,
    for the purposes of a grant not to exceed $11,500,000 to
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    the Northern Illinois Transit Authority on behalf of PACE
    for the purpose of ADA/Para-transit expenses; or, during
    fiscal year 2027, for implementation of Article V of the
    Downstate Public Transportation Act in compliance with
    Section 11 of Article IX of the Illinois Constitution; or
    for any of those purposes or any other purpose that may be
    provided by law.
    Appropriations for any of those purposes are payable from
the Road Fund. Appropriations may also be made from the Road
Fund for the administrative expenses of any State agency that
are related to motor vehicles or arise from the use of motor
vehicles.
    Beginning with fiscal year 1980 and thereafter, no Road
Fund moneys monies shall be appropriated to the following
Departments      or    agencies     of     State      government    for
administration, grants, or operations; but this limitation is
not a restriction upon appropriating for those purposes any
Road   Fund   moneys   monies     that   are    eligible   for   federal
reimbursement:
        1. Department of Public Health;
        2. Department of Transportation, only with respect to
    subsidies for one-half fare Student Transportation and
    Reduced Fare for Elderly, except fiscal year 2025 when no
    more than $20,969,900 may be expended and except fiscal
    years year 2026 and 2027 when no more than $23,067,000 may
    be expended;
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        3. Department of Central Management Services, except
    for expenditures incurred for group insurance premiums of
    appropriate personnel;
        4. Judicial Systems and Agencies.
    Beginning with fiscal year 1981 and thereafter, no Road
Fund moneys monies shall be appropriated to the following
Departments      or    agencies      of     State      government      for
administration, grants, or operations; but this limitation is
not a restriction upon appropriating for those purposes any
Road   Fund   moneys   monies     that    are    eligible   for    federal
reimbursement:
        1. Illinois State Police, except for expenditures with
    respect to the Division of Patrol and Division of Criminal
    Investigation;
        2. Department of Transportation, only with respect to
    Intercity Rail Subsidies, except fiscal year 2025 when no
    more than $67,000,000 may be expended and except fiscal
    years year 2026 and 2027 when no more than $76,000,000 may
    be expended, and Rail Freight Services.
    Beginning with fiscal year 1982 and thereafter, no Road
Fund moneys monies shall be appropriated to the following
Departments      or    agencies      of     State      government      for
administration, grants, or operations; but this limitation is
not a restriction upon appropriating for those purposes any
Road   Fund   moneys   monies     that    are    eligible   for    federal
reimbursement:    Department    of   Central      Management      Services,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


except for awards made by the Illinois Workers' Compensation
Commission under the terms of the Workers' Compensation Act or
Workers' Occupational Diseases Act for injury or death of an
employee of the Division of Highways in the Department of
Transportation.
    Beginning with fiscal year 1984 and thereafter, no Road
Fund moneys monies shall be appropriated to the following
Departments      or    agencies     of     State      government    for
administration, grants, or operations; but this limitation is
not a restriction upon appropriating for those purposes any
Road   Fund   moneys   monies     that   are    eligible   for   federal
reimbursement:
        1. Illinois State Police, except not more than 40% of
    the funds appropriated for the Division of Patrol and
    Division of Criminal Investigation;
        2. State Officers.
    Beginning with fiscal year 1984 and thereafter, no Road
Fund moneys monies shall be appropriated to any Department or
agency of State government for administration, grants, or
operations except as provided hereafter; but this limitation
is not a restriction upon appropriating for those purposes any
Road   Fund   moneys   monies     that   are    eligible   for   federal
reimbursement. It shall not be lawful to circumvent the above
appropriation limitations by governmental reorganization or
other methods. Appropriations shall be made from the Road Fund
only in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Money in the Road Fund shall, if and when the State of
Illinois incurs any bonded indebtedness for the construction
of permanent highways, be set aside and used for the purpose of
paying and discharging during each fiscal year the principal
and interest on that bonded indebtedness as it becomes due and
payable as provided in the General Obligation Bond Act, and
for no other purpose. The surplus, if any, in the Road Fund
after the payment of principal and interest on that bonded
indebtedness then annually due shall be used as follows:
         first -- to pay the cost of administration of Chapters
    2 through 10 of the Illinois Vehicle Code; and
         secondly -- no Road Fund moneys monies derived from
    fees, excises, or license taxes relating to registration,
    operation and use of vehicles on public highways or to
    fuels used for the propulsion of those vehicles, shall be
    appropriated    or    expended      other     than       for   costs    of
    administering the laws imposing those fees, excises, and
    license taxes, statutory refunds and adjustments allowed
    thereunder,    administrative      costs    of     the   Department     of
    Transportation,      including,     but     not    limited      to,    the
    operating   expenses    of   the    Department       relating    to    the
    administration of public transportation programs, payment
    of debts and liabilities incurred in construction and
    reconstruction of public highways and bridges, acquisition
    of   rights-of-way     for   and    the     cost    of    construction,
    reconstruction,      maintenance,    repair,       and    operation     of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      public      highways     and    bridges     under    the       direction        and
      supervision       of    the     State,     political      subdivision,           or
      municipality collecting those moneys monies, or during
      fiscal year 2025 for the purposes of a grant not to exceed
      $10,020,000 to the Regional Transportation Authority on
      behalf      of   PACE    for     the     purpose    of    ADA/Para-transit
      expenses, or during fiscal year 2026 for the purposes of a
      grant    not      to     exceed     $11,500,000          to        the   Regional
      Transportation Authority on behalf of PACE for the purpose
      of ADA/Para-transit expenses, or during fiscal year 2027
      for the purposes of a grant not to exceed $11,500,000 to
      the Northern Illinois Transit Authority on behalf of PACE
      for the purpose of ADA/Para-transit expenses, or, during
      fiscal year 2027, for implementation of Article V of the
      Downstate Public Transportation Act in compliance with
      Section 11 of Article IX of the Illinois Constitution, and
      the costs for patrolling and policing the public highways
      (by   the    State,     political      subdivision,           or    municipality
      collecting that money) for enforcement of traffic laws.
      The separation of grades of such highways with railroads
      and costs associated with protection of at-grade highway
      and railroad crossing shall also be permissible.
      Appropriations for any of such purposes are payable from
the   Road     Fund    or     the    Grade   Crossing     Protection           Fund    as
provided in Section 8 of the Motor Fuel Tax Law.
      Except      as   provided      in   this   paragraph,         beginning     with
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


fiscal year 1991 and thereafter, no Road Fund moneys monies
shall be appropriated to the Illinois State Police for the
purposes of this Section in excess of its total fiscal year
1990   Road   Fund     appropriations     for   those    purposes    unless
otherwise provided in Section 5g of this Act. For fiscal years
2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2007 only, no Road Fund moneys
monies shall be appropriated to the Department of State Police
for the purposes of this Section in excess of $97,310,000. For
fiscal year 2008 only, no Road Fund moneys monies shall be
appropriated    to     the   Department    of   State    Police    for    the
purposes of this Section in excess of $106,100,000. For fiscal
year   2009    only,    no   Road   Fund    moneys      monies    shall    be
appropriated    to     the   Department    of   State    Police    for    the
purposes of this Section in excess of $114,700,000. Beginning
in fiscal year 2010, no Road Fund moneys shall be appropriated
to the Illinois State Police. It shall not be lawful to
circumvent this limitation on appropriations by governmental
reorganization or other methods unless otherwise provided in
Section 5g of this Act.
    In fiscal year 1994, no Road Fund moneys monies shall be
appropriated to the Secretary of State for the purposes of
this Section in excess of the total fiscal year 1991 Road Fund
appropriations to the Secretary of State for those purposes,
plus $9,800,000. It shall not be lawful to circumvent this
limitation on appropriations by governmental reorganization or
other method.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Beginning with fiscal year 1995 and thereafter, no Road
Fund moneys monies shall be appropriated to the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Section in excess of the total
fiscal year 1994 Road Fund appropriations to the Secretary of
State for those purposes. It shall not be lawful to circumvent
this      limitation          on        appropriations       by      governmental
reorganization or other methods.
    Beginning         with    fiscal       year   2000,      total     Road      Fund
appropriations to the Secretary of State for the purposes of
this Section shall not exceed the amounts specified for the
following fiscal years:
    Fiscal Year 2000                                                 $80,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2001                                                 $80,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2002                                                 $80,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2003                                               $130,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2004                                               $130,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2005                                               $130,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2006                                               $130,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2007                                               $130,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2008                                               $130,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2009                                               $130,500,000.
    For      fiscal    year    2010,      no   road   fund    moneys      shall    be
appropriated to the Secretary of State.
    Beginning in fiscal year 2011, moneys in the Road Fund
shall   be    appropriated         to    the   Secretary     of   State    for    the
exclusive purpose of paying refunds due to overpayment of fees
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


related to Chapter 3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code unless
otherwise provided for by law.
    Beginning in fiscal year 2025, moneys in the Road Fund may
be appropriated to the Environmental Protection Agency for the
exclusive purpose of making deposits into the Electric Vehicle
and Charging Rebate Fund, subject to appropriation, to be used
for purposes consistent with Section 11 of Article IX of the
Illinois Constitution.
    In fiscal years year 2026 and 2027, in addition to any
other uses permitted by law, moneys in the Road Fund may be
used,   subject   to   appropriation,    by   the   Department   of
Transportation for grants to port districts for the purpose of
making infrastructure improvements consistent with Section 11
of Article IX of the Illinois Constitution.
    It shall not be lawful to circumvent this limitation on
appropriations    by   governmental     reorganization   or   other
methods.
    No new program may be initiated in fiscal year 1991 and
thereafter that is not consistent with the limitations imposed
by this Section for fiscal year 1984 and thereafter, insofar
as appropriation of Road Fund moneys monies is concerned.
    Nothing in this Section prohibits transfers from the Road
Fund to the State Construction Account Fund under Section 5e
of this Act; nor to the General Revenue Fund, as authorized by
Public Act 93-25.
    The additional amounts authorized for expenditure in this
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Section by Public Acts 92-0600, 93-0025, 93-0839, and 94-91
shall be repaid to the Road Fund from the General Revenue Fund
in the next succeeding fiscal year that the General Revenue
Fund   has   a    positive    budgetary    balance,     as    determined   by
generally     accepted       accounting     principles        applicable   to
government.
    The additional amounts authorized for expenditure by the
Secretary of State and the Department of State Police in this
Section by Public Act 94-91 shall be repaid to the Road Fund
from the General Revenue Fund in the next succeeding fiscal
year that the General Revenue Fund has a positive budgetary
balance,     as     determined     by   generally     accepted    accounting
principles applicable to government.
(Source:     P.A.    103-8,      eff.   6-7-23;     103-34,    eff.   1-1-24;
103-588, eff. 6-5-24; 103-605, eff. 7-1-24; 103-616, eff.
7-1-24; 104-2, eff. 6-16-25; 104-417, eff. 8-15-25.)


    (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-457 and
104-458)
    Sec. 8.3. Money in the Road Fund shall, if and when the
State of Illinois incurs any bonded indebtedness for the
construction of permanent highways, be set aside and used for
the purpose of paying and discharging annually the principal
and interest on that bonded indebtedness then due and payable,
and for no other purpose. The surplus, if any, in the Road Fund
after the payment of principal and interest on that bonded
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


indebtedness then annually due shall be used as follows:
        first -- to pay the cost of administration of Chapters
    2 through 10 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, except the cost
    of administration of Articles I and II of Chapter 3 of that
    Code,   and   to     pay       the    costs      of    the    Executive        Ethics
    Commission for oversight and administration of the Chief
    Procurement    Officer          appointed        under       paragraph        (2)    of
    subsection     (a)        of     Section         10-20       of      the     Illinois
    Procurement Code for transportation; and
        secondly        --    for        expenses      of     the        Department      of
    Transportation            for         construction,               reconstruction,
    improvement,         repair,           maintenance,             operation,          and
    administration           of    highways       in       accordance           with    the
    provisions of laws relating thereto, or for any purpose
    related or incident to and connected therewith, including
    the separation of grades of those highways with railroads
    and with highways and including the payment of awards made
    by the Illinois Workers' Compensation Commission under the
    terms   of    the    Workers'          Compensation          Act       or    Workers'
    Occupational       Diseases          Act   for    injury        or    death    of    an
    employee of the Division of Highways in the Department of
    Transportation; or for the acquisition of land and the
    erection of buildings for highway purposes, including the
    acquisition of highway right-of-way or for investigations
    to determine the reasonably anticipated future highway
    needs; or for making of surveys, plans, specifications and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    estimates for and in the construction and maintenance of
    flight strips and of highways necessary to provide access
    to military and naval reservations, to defense industries
    and defense-industry sites, and to the sources of raw
    materials and for replacing existing highways and highway
    connections shut off from general public use at military
    and naval reservations and defense-industry sites, or for
    the purchase of right-of-way, except that the State shall
    be reimbursed in full for any expense incurred in building
    the flight strips; or for the operating and maintaining of
    highway garages; or for patrolling and policing the public
    highways and conserving the peace; or for the operating
    expenses of the Department relating to the administration
    of   public   transportation     programs;    Northern    Illinois
    Transit or, during fiscal year 2025, for the purposes of a
    grant not to exceed $10,020,000 to the Northern Illinois
    Transit Authority on behalf of PACE for the purpose of
    ADA/Para-transit expenses; or, during fiscal year 2026,
    for the purposes of a grant not to exceed $11,500,000 to
    the Regional Transportation Authority on behalf of PACE
    for the purpose of ADA/Para-transit expenses; or, during
    fiscal year 2027, for the purposes of a grant not to exceed
    $11,500,000 to the Northern Illinois Transit Authority on
    behalf   of   PACE   for   the   purpose     of   ADA/Para-transit
    expenses; or, during fiscal year 2027, for implementation
    of Article V of the Downstate Public Transportation Act in
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    compliance with Section 11 of Article IX of the Illinois
    Constitution; or for any of those purposes or any other
    purpose that may be provided by law.
    Appropriations for any of those purposes are payable from
the Road Fund. Appropriations may also be made from the Road
Fund for the administrative expenses of any State agency that
are related to motor vehicles or arise from the use of motor
vehicles.
    Beginning with fiscal year 1980 and thereafter, no Road
Fund moneys monies shall be appropriated to the following
Departments      or    agencies     of     State      government    for
administration, grants, or operations; but this limitation is
not a restriction upon appropriating for those purposes any
Road   Fund   moneys   monies     that   are    eligible   for   federal
reimbursement:
        1. Department of Public Health;
        2. Department of Transportation, only with respect to
    subsidies for one-half fare Student Transportation and
    Reduced Fare for Elderly, except fiscal year 2025 when no
    more than $20,969,900 may be expended and except fiscal
    years year 2026 and 2027 when no more than $23,067,000 may
    be expended;
        3. Department of Central Management Services, except
    for expenditures incurred for group insurance premiums of
    appropriate personnel;
        4. Judicial Systems and Agencies.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Beginning with fiscal year 1981 and thereafter, no Road
Fund moneys monies shall be appropriated to the following
Departments      or    agencies      of     State      government      for
administration, grants, or operations; but this limitation is
not a restriction upon appropriating for those purposes any
Road   Fund   moneys   monies     that    are    eligible   for    federal
reimbursement:
        1. Illinois State Police, except for expenditures with
    respect to the Division of Patrol and Division of Criminal
    Investigation;
        2. Department of Transportation, only with respect to
    Intercity Rail Subsidies, except fiscal year 2025 when no
    more than $67,000,000 may be expended and except fiscal
    years year 2026 and 2027 when no more than $76,000,000 may
    be expended, and Rail Freight Services.
    Beginning with fiscal year 1982 and thereafter, no Road
Fund moneys monies shall be appropriated to the following
Departments      or    agencies      of     State      government      for
administration, grants, or operations; but this limitation is
not a restriction upon appropriating for those purposes any
Road   Fund   moneys   monies     that    are    eligible   for    federal
reimbursement:    Department    of   Central      Management      Services,
except for awards made by the Illinois Workers' Compensation
Commission under the terms of the Workers' Compensation Act or
Workers' Occupational Diseases Act for injury or death of an
employee of the Division of Highways in the Department of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Transportation.
    Beginning with fiscal year 1984 and thereafter, no Road
Fund moneys monies shall be appropriated to the following
Departments      or    agencies     of     State      government    for
administration, grants, or operations; but this limitation is
not a restriction upon appropriating for those purposes any
Road   Fund   moneys   monies     that   are    eligible   for   federal
reimbursement:
        1. Illinois State Police, except not more than 40% of
    the funds appropriated for the Division of Patrol and
    Division of Criminal Investigation;
        2. State Officers.
    Beginning with fiscal year 1984 and thereafter, no Road
Fund moneys monies shall be appropriated to any Department or
agency of State government for administration, grants, or
operations except as provided hereafter; but this limitation
is not a restriction upon appropriating for those purposes any
Road   Fund   moneys   monies     that   are    eligible   for   federal
reimbursement. It shall not be lawful to circumvent the above
appropriation limitations by governmental reorganization or
other methods. Appropriations shall be made from the Road Fund
only in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
    Money in the Road Fund shall, if and when the State of
Illinois incurs any bonded indebtedness for the construction
of permanent highways, be set aside and used for the purpose of
paying and discharging during each fiscal year the principal
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


and interest on that bonded indebtedness as it becomes due and
payable as provided in the General Obligation Bond Act, and
for no other purpose. The surplus, if any, in the Road Fund
after the payment of principal and interest on that bonded
indebtedness then annually due shall be used as follows:
         first -- to pay the cost of administration of Chapters
    2 through 10 of the Illinois Vehicle Code; and
         secondly -- no Road Fund moneys monies derived from
    fees, excises, or license taxes relating to registration,
    operation and use of vehicles on public highways or to
    fuels used for the propulsion of those vehicles, shall be
    appropriated    or     expended         other       than      for     costs    of
    administering the laws imposing those fees, excises, and
    license taxes, statutory refunds and adjustments allowed
    thereunder,    administrative           costs    of    the    Department       of
    Transportation,       including,        but     not     limited        to,    the
    operating   expenses        of    the   Department         relating     to    the
    administration of public transportation programs, payment
    of debts and liabilities incurred in construction and
    reconstruction of public highways and bridges, acquisition
    of   rights-of-way      for       and   the     cost    of     construction,
    reconstruction,       maintenance,          repair,     and    operation       of
    public   highways     and        bridges    under      the    direction       and
    supervision    of     the     State,       political       subdivision,        or
    municipality    collecting          those     moneys       monies,     Northern
    Illinois    Transit    or     during       fiscal     year     2025    for    the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      purposes of a grant not to exceed $10,020,000 to the
      Northern Illinois Transit Authority on behalf of PACE for
      the purpose of ADA/Para-transit expenses, or during fiscal
      year 2026 for the purposes of a grant not to exceed
      $11,500,000 to the Regional Transportation Authority on
      behalf    of    PACE    for       the   purpose     of    ADA/Para-transit
      expenses, or during fiscal year 2027 for the purposes of a
      grant not to exceed $11,500,000 to the Northern Illinois
      Transit Authority on behalf of PACE for the purpose of
      ADA/Para-transit expenses, or, during fiscal year 2027,
      for implementation of Article V of the Downstate Public
      Transportation       Act     in    compliance      with    Section   11    of
      Article IX of the Illinois Constitution, and the costs for
      patrolling and policing the public highways (by the State,
      political subdivision, or municipality collecting that
      money) for enforcement of traffic laws. The separation of
      grades    of     such      highways       with    railroads    and      costs
      associated      with     protection        of    at-grade     highway     and
      railroad crossing shall also be permissible.
      Appropriations for any of such purposes are payable from
the   Road     Fund   or     the   Grade      Crossing    Protection    Fund     as
provided in Section 8 of the Motor Fuel Tax Law.
      Except    as    provided      in   this    paragraph,      beginning     with
fiscal year 1991 and thereafter, no Road Fund moneys monies
shall be appropriated to the Illinois State Police for the
purposes of this Section in excess of its total fiscal year
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


1990   Road   Fund     appropriations     for   those    purposes    unless
otherwise provided in Section 5g of this Act. For fiscal years
2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2007 only, no Road Fund moneys
monies shall be appropriated to the Department of State Police
for the purposes of this Section in excess of $97,310,000. For
fiscal year 2008 only, no Road Fund moneys monies shall be
appropriated    to     the   Department    of   State    Police    for    the
purposes of this Section in excess of $106,100,000. For fiscal
year   2009    only,    no   Road   Fund    moneys      monies    shall    be
appropriated    to     the   Department    of   State    Police    for    the
purposes of this Section in excess of $114,700,000. Beginning
in fiscal year 2010, no Road Fund moneys shall be appropriated
to the Illinois State Police. It shall not be lawful to
circumvent this limitation on appropriations by governmental
reorganization or other methods unless otherwise provided in
Section 5g of this Act.
    In fiscal year 1994, no Road Fund moneys monies shall be
appropriated to the Secretary of State for the purposes of
this Section in excess of the total fiscal year 1991 Road Fund
appropriations to the Secretary of State for those purposes,
plus $9,800,000. It shall not be lawful to circumvent this
limitation on appropriations by governmental reorganization or
other method.
    Beginning with fiscal year 1995 and thereafter, no Road
Fund moneys monies shall be appropriated to the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Section in excess of the total
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


fiscal year 1994 Road Fund appropriations to the Secretary of
State for those purposes. It shall not be lawful to circumvent
this      limitation          on        appropriations       by      governmental
reorganization or other methods.
    Beginning         with    fiscal       year   2000,      total     Road      Fund
appropriations to the Secretary of State for the purposes of
this Section shall not exceed the amounts specified for the
following fiscal years:
    Fiscal Year 2000                                                 $80,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2001                                                 $80,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2002                                                 $80,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2003                                               $130,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2004                                               $130,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2005                                               $130,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2006                                               $130,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2007                                               $130,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2008                                               $130,500,000;
    Fiscal Year 2009                                               $130,500,000.
    For      fiscal    year    2010,      no   road   fund    moneys      shall    be
appropriated to the Secretary of State.
    Beginning in fiscal year 2011, moneys in the Road Fund
shall   be    appropriated         to    the   Secretary     of   State    for    the
exclusive purpose of paying refunds due to overpayment of fees
related to Chapter 3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code unless
otherwise provided for by law.
    Beginning in fiscal year 2025, moneys in the Road Fund may
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


be appropriated to the Environmental Protection Agency for the
exclusive purpose of making deposits into the Electric Vehicle
Rebate and Charging Fund, subject to appropriation, to be used
for purposes consistent with Section 11 of Article IX of the
Illinois Constitution.
     In fiscal years year 2026 and 2027, in addition to any
other uses permitted by law, moneys in the Road Fund may be
used,     subject     to    appropriation,     by     the    Department      of
Transportation for grants to port districts for the purpose of
making infrastructure improvements consistent with Section 11
of Article IX of the Illinois Constitution.
     Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
beginning in Fiscal Year 2027, any interest earned on monies
in the Road Fund and the State Construction Account Fund shall
be      dedicated     to     public      transportation          construction
improvements or debt service. Of the interest earned on moneys
in the Road Fund and the State Construction Account Fund on or
after July 1, 2026, 90% shall be deposited into the Northern
Illinois Transit Capital Improvement Fund to be used by the
Northern     Illinois       Transit      Authority     for       construction
improvements and 10% shall be deposited into the Downstate
Mass Transportation Capital Improvement Fund to be used by
participants    in    the    Downstate    Public    Transportation      Fund,
other    than   the    Northern   Illinois     Transit      Authority,      for
construction     improvements.        There   shall   be     a   transfer    of
$5,000,000 from the Downstate Transit Improvement Fund to an
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


airport operated under the University of Illinois Airport Act.
Beginning in Fiscal Year 2027, the Department shall issue a
semi-annual call for projects for this program.
    It shall not be lawful to circumvent this limitation on
appropriations      by   governmental     reorganization     or   other
methods.
    No new program may be initiated in fiscal year 1991 and
thereafter that is not consistent with the limitations imposed
by this Section for fiscal year 1984 and thereafter, insofar
as appropriation of Road Fund moneys monies is concerned.
    Nothing in this Section prohibits transfers from the Road
Fund to the State Construction Account Fund under Section 5e
of this Act; nor to the General Revenue Fund, as authorized by
Public Act 93-25.
    The additional amounts authorized for expenditure in this
Section by Public Acts 92-0600, 93-0025, 93-0839, and 94-91
shall be repaid to the Road Fund from the General Revenue Fund
in the next succeeding fiscal year that the General Revenue
Fund   has   a   positive    budgetary   balance,   as   determined   by
generally     accepted      accounting   principles      applicable   to
government.
    The additional amounts authorized for expenditure by the
Secretary of State and the Department of State Police in this
Section by Public Act 94-91 shall be repaid to the Road Fund
from the General Revenue Fund in the next succeeding fiscal
year that the General Revenue Fund has a positive budgetary
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


balance,     as      determined       by    generally     accepted       accounting
principles applicable to government.
(Source:     P.A.      103-8,     eff.      6-7-23;     103-34,    eff.     1-1-24;
103-588, eff. 6-5-24; 103-605, eff. 7-1-24; 103-616, eff.
7-1-24; 104-2, eff. 6-16-25; 104-417, eff. 8-15-25; 104-457,
eff. 6-1-26; 104-458, eff. 6-1-26; revised 1-12-26.)


    (30 ILCS 105/8.12) (from Ch. 127, par. 144.12)
    Sec. 8.12. State Pensions Fund.
    (a) The moneys in the State Pensions Fund shall be used
exclusively for the administration of the Revised Uniform
Unclaimed Property Act; and for the expenses incurred by the
Auditor General for administering the provisions of Section
2-8.1 of the Illinois State Auditing Act; and for operational
expenses of the Office of the State Treasurer; and for the
funding    of      the   unfunded          liabilities    of    the      designated
retirement        systems.      For     the    purposes    of     this     Section,
"operational expenses of the Office of the State Treasurer"
includes the acquisition of land and buildings in State fiscal
years 2019 and 2020 for use by the Office of the State
Treasurer,        as     well      as       construction,         reconstruction,
improvement, repair, and maintenance, in accordance with the
provisions      of     laws   relating        thereto,    of    such     lands   and
buildings beginning in State fiscal year 2019 and thereafter.
Beginning in State fiscal year 2028 2027, payments to the
designated retirement systems under this Section shall be in
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


addition to, and not in lieu of, any State contributions
required under the Illinois Pension Code.
    "Designated retirement systems" means:
        (1)     the   State   Employees'   Retirement   System   of
    Illinois;
        (2) the Teachers' Retirement System of the State of
    Illinois;
        (3) the State Universities Retirement System;
        (4) the Judges Retirement System of Illinois; and
        (5) the General Assembly Retirement System.
    (b) Each year the General Assembly may make appropriations
from the State Pensions Fund for the administration of the
Revised Uniform Unclaimed Property Act.
    (c) (Blank).
    (c-5) For fiscal years 2006 through 2027 2026, the General
Assembly shall appropriate from the State Pensions Fund to the
State Universities Retirement System the amount estimated to
be available during the fiscal year in the State Pensions
Fund; provided, however, that the amounts appropriated under
this subsection (c-5) shall not reduce the amount in the State
Pensions Fund below $5,000,000.
    (c-6) For fiscal year 2028 2027 and each fiscal year
thereafter, as soon as may be practical after any money is
deposited into the State Pensions Fund from the Unclaimed
Property Trust Fund, the State Treasurer shall apportion the
deposited amount among the designated retirement systems as
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


defined in subsection (a) to reduce their actuarial reserve
deficiencies. The State Comptroller and the State Treasurer
shall pay the apportioned amounts to the designated retirement
systems to fund the unfunded liabilities of the designated
retirement systems. The amount apportioned to each designated
retirement system shall constitute a portion of the amount
estimated to be available for appropriation from the State
Pensions Fund that is the same as that retirement system's
portion of the total actual reserve deficiency of the systems,
as determined annually by the Governor's Office of Management
and Budget at the request of the State Treasurer. The amounts
apportioned under this subsection shall not reduce the amount
in the State Pensions Fund below $5,000,000.
    (d) The Governor's Office of Management and Budget shall
determine the individual and total reserve deficiencies of the
designated   retirement   systems.   For   this   purpose,   the
Governor's Office of Management and Budget shall utilize the
latest available audit and actuarial reports of each of the
retirement systems and the relevant reports and statistics of
the Public Employee Pension Fund Division of the Department of
Insurance.
    (d-1) (Blank).
    (e) The changes to this Section made by Public Act 88-593
shall first apply to distributions from the Fund for State
fiscal year 1996.
(Source: P.A. 103-8, eff. 6-7-23; 103-588, eff. 6-5-24; 104-2,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


eff. 6-16-25.)


    (30 ILCS 105/8.58 new)
    Sec. 8.58. Transfer to the Healthcare Provider Relief
Fund.     (a) In addition to any other transfers that may be
provided for by law, on July 1, 2026, October 1, 2026, January
1, 2027, and April 1, 2027, or as soon thereafter as practical,
the State Comptroller shall direct and the State Treasurer
shall transfer in equal quarterly installments a total of
$110,000,000 from the Hospital Provider Fund to the Healthcare
Provider Relief Fund.
    (b) On and after July 1, 2026, at the direction of and upon
notification from the Director of the Governor's Office of
Management and Budget, the State Comptroller shall direct, and
the State Treasurer shall transfer back to their fund of
origin   any   portions   of   the   amounts    transferred   from   the
Hospital Provider Fund to the Healthcare Provider Relief Fund
pursuant to subsection (a). All or a portion of the amounts
transferred pursuant to this subsection (b) from time to time
may be re-transferred, at the direction of the Director of the
Governor's Office of Management and Budget, by the State
Comptroller and the State Treasurer from the Hospital Provider
Fund to the Healthcare Provider Relief Fund.
    (c) This Section is repealed on January 1, 2028.


    (30 ILCS 105/8g)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


     Sec. 8g. Fund transfers.
     (a) (Blank).
     (b) (Blank).
     (c)   In     addition       to   any   other    transfers      that    may   be
provided for by law, on August 30 of each fiscal year's license
period, the Illinois Liquor Control Commission shall direct
and the State Comptroller and State Treasurer shall transfer
from the General Revenue Fund to the Youth Alcoholism and
Substance Abuse Prevention Fund an amount equal to the number
of   retail       liquor    licenses        issued   for     that   fiscal    year
multiplied by $50. This subsection (c) is inoperative from
July 1, 2025, through June 30, 2026. This subsection (c) is
inoperative after June 30, 2026.
     (d) The payments to programs required under subsection (d)
of Section 28.1 of the Illinois Horse Racing Act of 1975 shall
be made, pursuant to appropriation, from the special funds
referred to in the statutes cited in that subsection, rather
than directly from the General Revenue Fund.
     Beginning January 1, 2000, on the first day of each month,
or   as    soon     as     may   be   practical      thereafter,      the    State
Comptroller       shall     direct     and     the   State     Treasurer     shall
transfer from the General Revenue Fund to each of the special
funds from which payments are to be made under subsection (d)
of Section 28.1 of the Illinois Horse Racing Act of 1975 an
amount equal to 1/12 of the annual amount required for those
payments from that special fund, which annual amount shall not
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


exceed the annual amount for those payments from that special
fund for the calendar year 1998. The special funds to which
transfers shall be made under this subsection (d) include, but
are not necessarily limited to, the Agricultural Premium Fund;
the Metropolitan Exposition, Auditorium and Office Building
Fund, but only through fiscal year 2021 and not thereafter;
the   Fair   and    Exposition   Fund;   the    Illinois   Standardbred
Breeders Fund; the Illinois Thoroughbred Breeders Fund; and
the Illinois Veterans' Rehabilitation Fund, but only through
fiscal year 2026 and not thereafter. Except for transfers
attributable to prior fiscal years, during State fiscal year
2020 only, no transfers shall be made from the General Revenue
Fund to the Agricultural Premium Fund, the Fair and Exposition
Fund, the Illinois Standardbred Breeders Fund, or the Illinois
Thoroughbred Breeders Fund. Except for transfers attributable
to prior fiscal years, during Fiscal Year 2027, the annual
amount otherwise required to be transferred from the General
Revenue Fund to the Agricultural Premium Fund shall be reduced
by $300,000.
(Source: P.A. 104-2, Article 5, Section 5-30, eff. 6-16-25;
104-2,    Article    30,   Section   30-65,    eff.   6-16-25;   revised
7-21-25.)


      (30 ILCS 105/8g-1)
      Sec. 8g-1. Fund transfers.
June 7, 2023 ( Public Act 103-8) June 7, 2023 ( Public Act
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


103-8) July 1, 2024 ( Public Act 103-588)
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July   1,   2024,   or   as   soon   thereafter   as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer the sum of $500,000 from the General
Revenue Fund to the Governor's Administrative Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July   1,   2024,   or   as   soon   thereafter   as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer the sum of $500,000 from the General
Revenue Fund to the Grant Accountability and Transparency
Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July   1,   2024,   or   as   soon   thereafter   as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer the sum of $25,000,000 from the
Violent Crime Witness Protection Program Fund to the General
Revenue Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for by law, beginning on the effective date of the changes made
to this Section by this amendatory Act of the 104th General
Assembly and until June 30, 2025, as directed by the Governor,
the State Comptroller shall direct and the State Treasurer
shall transfer up to a total of $370,000,000 from the General
Revenue Fund to the Fund for Illinois' Future.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


for   by   law,   on   July    1,    2025,   or    as    soon   thereafter    as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer the sum of $500,000 from the General
Revenue Fund to the Governor's Administrative Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July    1,    2025,   or    as    soon   thereafter    as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer the sum of $100,000 from the General
Revenue Fund to the Grant Accountability and Transparency
Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July    1,    2025,   or    as    soon   thereafter    as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer    shall     transfer      the   sum    of    $5,000,000   from    the
General Revenue Fund to the DHS State Projects Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July    1,    2025,   or    as    soon   thereafter    as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer    shall     transfer      the   sum    of    $4,000,000   from    the
Capital     Projects    Fund    to    the    Capital      Development   Board
Revolving Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July    1,    2025,   or    as    soon   thereafter    as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer the sum of $15,000,000 from the
Criminal Justice Information Projects Fund to the Department
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


of Human Services Community Services Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July   1,   2025,   or    as    soon   thereafter    as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer    shall     transfer    the   sum    of    $5,000,000   from    the
Underground Storage Tank Fund to the Brownfields Redevelopment
Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July   1,   2025,   or    as    soon   thereafter    as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer the sum of $10,000,000 from the State
Police Services Fund to the State Police Operations Assistance
Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for by law, on the effective date of this amendatory Act of the
104th General Assembly or as soon thereafter as practical, but
no later than June 30, 2025, the State Comptroller shall
direct and the State Treasurer shall transfer $200,000,000
from the General Revenue Fund to the Technology Management
Revolving Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July   1,   2025,   or    as    soon   thereafter    as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer $3,000,000 from the Compassionate Use
of Medical Cannabis Fund to the Department of Human Services
Community Services Fund.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July   1,   2025,   or   as   soon   thereafter   as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer $75,000,000 from the General Revenue
Fund to the Tier 2 SSWB Reserve Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July   1,   2025,   or   as   soon   thereafter   as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer    shall     transfer     $6,000,000       from   the    Illinois
Agricultural Loan Guarantee Fund to the General Revenue Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July   1,   2025,   or   as   soon   thereafter   as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer $4,000,000 from the Illinois Farmer
and Agribusiness Loan Guarantee Fund to the General Revenue
Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July   1,   2025,   or   as   soon   thereafter   as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer    shall     transfer    $20,000,000       from   the   Insurance
Producer Administration Fund to the General Revenue Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July   1,   2025,   or   as   soon   thereafter   as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer the sum of $12,500,000 from the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Fund to the Statewide
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


9-8-8 Trust Fund. Beginning June 30, 2026, at the direction of
the Secretary of Human Services, the State Comptroller shall
direct and the State Treasurer shall transfer the sum of
$12,500,000       from   the    Statewide      9-8-8     Trust   Fund    to   the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for by law, beginning on the effective date of the changes made
to this Section by this amendatory Act of the 104th General
Assembly    and    through      June    30,    2026,     as   directed   by   the
Governor, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer up to $277,000,000 from the General
Revenue Fund to the Fund for Illinois' Future.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,    on    July   1,     2026,   or   as   soon    thereafter    as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer the sum of $500,000 from the General
Revenue Fund to the Governor's Administrative Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,    on    July   1,     2026,   or   as   soon    thereafter    as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer the sum of $100,000 from the General
Revenue Fund to the Grant Accountability and Transparency
Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,    on    July   1,     2026,   or   as   soon    thereafter    as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Treasurer shall transfer the sum of $10,000,000 from the
Capital     Projects    Fund    to    the     Capital      Development   Board
Revolving Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July    1,    2026,    or    as    soon   thereafter    as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer    shall     transfer      the   sum     of    $5,000,000   from    the
Underground Storage Tank Fund to the Brownfields Redevelopment
Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July    1,    2026,    or    as    soon   thereafter    as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer    shall     transfer      the     remaining     balance    from    the
Freedom     Schools    Fund    into    the       State    Coronavirus    Urgent
Remediation Emergency Fund.
      In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for   by   law,   on   July    1,    2026,    or    as    soon   thereafter    as
practical, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer the sum of $35,000,000 from the State
Coronavirus Urgent Remediation Emergency Fund to the General
Revenue Fund.
      In addition to any other transfer that may be provided for
by law, on July 1, 2026, or as soon thereafter as practical,
the State Comptroller shall direct and the State Treasurer
shall transfer the sum of $5,000,000 from the Facilities
Management Revolving Fund to the General Revenue Fund.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


(Source: P.A. 103-8, eff. 6-7-23; 103-588, eff. 6-5-24; 104-2,
eff. 6-16-25; 104-417, eff. 8-15-25; revised 9-10-25.)


      (30 ILCS 105/13.2) (from Ch. 127, par. 149.2)
      Sec. 13.2. Transfers among line item appropriations.
      (a) Transfers among line item appropriations from the same
treasury fund for the objects specified in this Section may be
made in the manner provided in this Section when the balance
remaining in one or more such line item appropriations is
insufficient for the purpose for which the appropriation was
made.
      (a-1) No transfers may be made from one agency to another
agency, nor may transfers be made from one institution of
higher education to another institution of higher education
except as provided by subsections (a-4), and (a-5), and (a-6).
      (a-2)   Except    as    otherwise     provided      in   this       Section,
transfers may be made only among the objects of expenditure
enumerated    in   this      Section,     except   that   no   funds          may   be
transferred from any appropriation for personal services, from
any     appropriation     for     State    contributions       to       the    State
Employees' Retirement System, from any separate appropriation
for employee retirement contributions paid by the employer,
nor from any appropriation for State contribution for employee
group insurance.
      (a-2.5) (Blank).
      (a-3)   Further,       if    an     agency    receives        a     separate
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


appropriation for employee retirement contributions paid by
the    employer,     any      transfer       by        that     agency           into    an
appropriation for personal services must be accompanied by a
corresponding transfer into the appropriation for employee
retirement contributions paid by the employer, in an amount
sufficient    to    meet    the       employer     share        of       the     employee
contributions      required      to    be   remitted          to     the       retirement
system.
      (a-4)   Long-Term       Care     Rebalancing.           The        Governor       may
designate     amounts      set    aside      for       institutional             services
appropriated from the General Revenue Fund or any other State
fund that receives moneys monies for long-term care services
to be transferred to all State agencies responsible for the
administration of community-based long-term care programs,
including, but not limited to, community-based long-term care
programs administered by the Department of Healthcare and
Family Services, the Department of Human Services, and the
Department on Aging, provided that the Director of Healthcare
and Family Services first certifies that the amounts being
transferred are necessary for the purpose of assisting persons
in or at risk of being in institutional care to transition to
community-based settings, including the financial data needed
to prove the need for the transfer of funds. The total amounts
transferred    shall    not      exceed     4%    in    total       of     the    amounts
appropriated from the General Revenue Fund or any other State
fund that receives moneys monies for long-term care services
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


for each fiscal year. A notice of the fund transfer must be
made to the General Assembly and posted at a minimum on the
Department of Healthcare and Family Services website, the
Governor's Office of Management and Budget website, and any
other website the Governor sees fit. These postings shall
serve as notice to the General Assembly of the amounts to be
transferred. Notice shall be given at least 30 days prior to
transfer.
     (a-5) Early Childhood Rebalancing. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Section, during State fiscal year 2026
only, the Governor may designate amounts set aside for any
costs of the Department of Early Childhood appropriated from
the General Revenue Fund to be transferred to the Department
of Early Childhood or to the Department of Human Services,
provided that both (i) the Secretary of Early Childhood or the
Secretary of Early Childhood's designee and (ii) the Secretary
of   Human   Services    or     the   Secretary   of   Human    Services'
designee, first certify that the amounts being transferred are
necessary for achieving the purposes of the Department of
Early Childhood Act. The Governor shall provide notice of any
transfers under this subsection (a-5) to the State Comptroller
as provided in subsection (d).
     (a-6)       Early    Childhood        Programming         Transition.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, during
State   Fiscal    Year   2027   only,   the   Governor   may    designate
amounts set aside for any costs of early childhood programming
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


appropriated to the Department of Early Childhood or the
Department of Human Services from the General Revenue Fund or
the Early Intervention Services Fund to be transferred to the
Department of Early Childhood or to the Department of Human
Services, as applicable, provided that both (i) the Secretary
of Early Childhood or the Secretary of Early Childhood's
designee and (ii) the Secretary of Human Services or the
Secretary of Human Services' designee, first certify that the
amounts being transferred are necessary for achieving the
purposes of early childhood programming authorized under the
Department of Early Childhood Act or the Illinois Public Aid
Code and the transition of that programming to the Department
of Early Childhood. The Governor shall provide notice of any
transfers under this subsection (a-6) to the State Comptroller
as provided in subsection (d).
    (b) In addition to the general transfer authority provided
under subsection (c), the following agencies have the specific
transfer authority granted in this subsection:
    The   Department   of   Healthcare   and   Family   Services   is
authorized to make transfers representing savings attributable
to not increasing grants due to the births of additional
children from line items for payments of cash grants to line
items for payments for employment and social services for the
purposes outlined in subsection (f) of Section 4-2 of the
Illinois Public Aid Code.
    The   Department   of   Children     and   Family   Services   is
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


authorized to make transfers not exceeding 2% of the aggregate
amount appropriated to it within the same treasury fund for
the following line items among these same line items: Foster
Home and Specialized Foster Care and Prevention, Institutions
and Group Homes and Prevention, and Purchase of Adoption and
Guardianship Services.
    The Department on Aging is authorized to make transfers
not exceeding 10% of the aggregate amount appropriated to it
within the same treasury fund for the following Community Care
Program line items among these same line items: purchase of
services     covered       by        the    Community       Care     Program     and
Comprehensive Case Coordination.
    The    State    Board       of    Education       is    authorized     to    make
transfers    from    line       item       appropriations        within   the    same
treasury fund for General State Aid, General State Aid - Hold
Harmless, and Evidence-Based Funding, provided that no such
transfer may be made unless the amount transferred is no
longer required for the purpose for which that appropriation
was made, to the line item appropriation for Transitional
Assistance    when   the        balance      remaining      in     such   line   item
appropriation is insufficient for the purpose for which the
appropriation was made.
    The    State    Board       of    Education       is    authorized     to    make
transfers    between   the        following      line       item    appropriations
within      the     same        treasury        fund:        Disabled        Student
Services/Materials     (Section            14-13.01    of    the    School   Code),
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Disabled        Student     Transportation        Reimbursement         (Section
14-13.01 of the School Code), Disabled Student Tuition -
Private    Tuition        (Section    14-7.02     of   the     School    Code),
Extraordinary       Special      Education     (Section   14-7.02b       of   the
School Code), Reimbursement for Free Lunch/Breakfast Program,
Summer School Payments (Section 18-4.3 of the School Code),
and Transportation - Regular/Vocational Reimbursement (Section
29-5 of the School Code). Such transfers shall be made only
when the balance remaining in one or more such line item
appropriations is insufficient for the purpose for which the
appropriation was made and provided that no such transfer may
be made unless the amount transferred is no longer required
for the purpose for which that appropriation was made.
    The    Department       of     Healthcare    and   Family    Services      is
authorized to make transfers not exceeding 4% of the aggregate
amount appropriated to it, within the same treasury fund,
among     the    various     line     items     appropriated    for     Medical
Assistance.
    The     Department        of     Central     Management     Services       is
authorized to make transfers not exceeding 2% of the aggregate
amount appropriated to it, within the same treasury fund, from
the various line items appropriated to the Department, into
the following line item appropriations: auto liability claims
and related expenses and payment of claims under the State
Employee Indemnification Act.
    (c) The sum of such transfers for an agency in a fiscal
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


year shall not exceed 2% of the aggregate amount appropriated
to it within the same treasury fund for the following objects:
Personal     Services;           Extra      Help;     Student     and     Inmate
Compensation; State Contributions to Retirement Systems; State
Contributions       to    Social       Security;    State     Contribution   for
Employee    Group        Insurance;       Contractual       Services;    Travel;
Commodities; Printing; Equipment; Electronic Data Processing;
Operation      of        Automotive        Equipment;        Telecommunications
Services; Travel and Allowance for Committed, Paroled and
Discharged Prisoners; Library Books; Federal Matching Grants
for     Student      Loans;            Refunds;     Workers'      Compensation,
Occupational Disease, and Tort Claims; Late Interest Penalties
under the State Prompt Payment Act and Sections 368a and 370a
of the Illinois Insurance Code; and, in appropriations to
institutions        of        higher    education,     Awards     and    Grants.
Notwithstanding          the    above,     any    amounts    appropriated    for
payment of workers' compensation claims to an agency to which
the authority to evaluate, administer and pay such claims has
been    delegated        by     the    Department    of     Central   Management
Services may be transferred to any other expenditure object
where such amounts exceed the amount necessary for the payment
of such claims.
      (c-1) (Blank).
      (c-2) (Blank).
      (c-3) (Blank).
      (c-4) (Blank).
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


     (c-5) (Blank).
     (c-6) (Blank).
     (c-7) (Blank).
     (c-8) (Blank).
     (c-9) (Blank).
     (c-10) (Blank).
     (c-11) (Blank). Special provisions for State fiscal year
2025. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, for
State     fiscal      year     2025,     transfers        among        line   item
appropriations to a State agency from the same State treasury
fund may be made for operational or lump sum expenses only,
provided that the sum of such transfers for a State agency in
State fiscal year 2025 shall not exceed 4% of the aggregate
amount appropriated to that State agency for operational or
lump sum expenses for State fiscal year 2025. For the purpose
of     this    subsection,     "operational       or    lump     sum    expenses"
includes the following objects: personal services; extra help;
student       and   inmate    compensation;       State      contributions     to
retirement systems; State contributions to social security;
State contributions for employee group insurance; contractual
services; travel; commodities; printing; equipment; electronic
data      processing;        operation     of      automotive          equipment;
telecommunications           services;    travel       and     allowance      for
committed, paroled, and discharged prisoners; library books;
federal matching grants for student loans; refunds; workers'
compensation,       occupational       disease,   and     tort    claims;     late
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


interest penalties under the State Prompt Payment Act and
Sections 368a and 370a of the Illinois Insurance Code; lump
sum and other purposes; and lump sum operations. For the
purpose of this subsection, "State agency" does not include
the Attorney General, the Comptroller, the Treasurer, or the
judicial or legislative branches.
      (c-12) Special provisions for State fiscal year 2026.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, for State
fiscal year 2026, transfers among line item appropriations to
a State agency from the same State treasury fund may be made
for operational or lump sum expenses only, provided that the
sum of such transfers for a State agency in State fiscal year
2026 shall not exceed 4% of the aggregate amount appropriated
to that State agency for operational or lump sum expenses for
State fiscal year 2026. For the purpose of this subsection,
"operational or lump sum expenses" includes the following
objects: personal services; extra help; student and inmate
compensation; State contributions to retirement systems; State
contributions     to    social   security;   State   contributions   for
employee    group      insurance;   contractual      services;   travel;
commodities; printing; equipment; electronic data processing;
operation    of        automotive    equipment;      telecommunications
services; travel and allowance for committed, paroled, and
discharged prisoners; library books; federal matching grants
for     student     loans;       refunds;    workers'     compensation,
occupational disease, and tort claims; late interest penalties
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


under the State Prompt Payment Act and Sections 368a and 370a
of the Illinois Insurance Code; lump sum and other purposes;
and lump sum operations. For the purpose of this subsection,
"State agency" does not include the Attorney General, the
Comptroller, the Treasurer, or the judicial or legislative
branches.
      (c-13) Special provisions for State Fiscal Year 2027.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, for State
Fiscal Year 2027, transfers among line item appropriations to
a State agency from the same State treasury fund may be made
for operational or lump sum expenses only, provided that the
sum of such transfers for a State agency in State Fiscal Year
2027 shall not exceed 4% of the aggregate amount appropriated
to that State agency for operational or lump sum expenses for
State Fiscal Year 2027. For the purpose of this subsection,
"operational or lump sum expenses" includes the following
objects: personal services; extra help; student and inmate
compensation; State contributions to retirement systems; State
contributions     to    social   security;   State   contributions   for
employee    group      insurance;   contractual      services;   travel;
commodities; printing; equipment; electronic data processing;
operation    of        automotive    equipment;      telecommunications
services; travel and allowance for committed, paroled, and
discharged prisoners; library books; federal matching grants
for     student     loans;       refunds;    workers'     compensation,
occupational disease, and tort claims; late interest penalties
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


under the State Prompt Payment Act and Sections 368a and 370a
of the Illinois Insurance Code; lump sum and other purposes;
and lump sum operations. For the purpose of this subsection,
"State agency" does not include the Attorney General, the
Comptroller, the Treasurer, or the judicial or legislative
branches.
      (d) Transfers among appropriations made to agencies of the
Legislative       and      Judicial        departments            and     to      the
constitutionally        elected    officers       in    the    Executive       branch
require the approval of the officer authorized in Section 10
of this Act to approve and certify vouchers. Transfers among
appropriations made to the University of Illinois, Southern
Illinois    University,          Chicago        State    University,          Eastern
Illinois    University,      Governors          State    University,         Illinois
State University, Northeastern Illinois University, Northern
Illinois University, Western Illinois University, the Illinois
Mathematics      and    Science    Academy       and    the    Board     of    Higher
Education     require      the    approval       of     the    Board    of     Higher
Education and the Governor. Transfers among appropriations to
all other agencies require the approval of the Governor.
      The officer responsible for approval shall certify that
the   transfer    is    necessary     to    carry       out    the    programs    and
purposes for which the appropriations were made by the General
Assembly    and    shall    transmit       to     the    State       Comptroller    a
certified copy of the approval which shall set forth the
specific    amounts     transferred        so    that    the     Comptroller      may
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


change his records accordingly. The Comptroller shall furnish
the Governor with information copies of all transfers approved
for agencies of the Legislative and Judicial departments and
transfers approved by the constitutionally elected officials
of the Executive branch other than the Governor, showing the
amounts transferred and indicating the dates such changes were
entered on the Comptroller's records.
    (e) The State Board of Education, in consultation with the
State Comptroller, may transfer line item appropriations for
General State Aid or Evidence-Based Funding among the Common
School Fund and the Education Assistance Fund, and, for State
fiscal year 2020 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Fund for
the Advancement of Education. With the advice and consent of
the Governor's Office of Management and Budget, the State
Board   of    Education,    in   consultation       with     the    State
Comptroller, may transfer line item appropriations between the
General Revenue Fund and the Education Assistance Fund for the
following programs:
        (1) Disabled Student Personnel Reimbursement (Section
    14-13.01 of the School Code);
        (2)   Disabled     Student   Transportation        Reimbursement
    (subsection (b) of Section 14-13.01 of the School Code);
        (3)   Disabled     Student   Tuition    -   Private        Tuition
    (Section 14-7.02 of the School Code);
        (4) Extraordinary Special Education (Section 14-7.02b
    of the School Code);
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


            (5) Reimbursement for Free Lunch/Breakfast Programs;
            (6) Summer School Payments (Section 18-4.3 of the
      School Code);
            (7) Transportation - Regular/Vocational Reimbursement
      (Section 29-5 of the School Code);
            (8) Regular Education Reimbursement (Section 18-3 of
      the School Code); and
            (9) Special Education Reimbursement (Section 14-7.03
      of the School Code).
      (f)    For   State   fiscal   year    2020    and    each   fiscal   year
thereafter, the Department on Aging, in consultation with the
State       Comptroller,     with   the    advice    and    consent   of   the
Governor's Office of Management and Budget, may transfer line
item appropriations for purchase of services covered by the
Community Care Program between the General Revenue Fund and
the Commitment to Human Services Fund.
      (g)    For   State   fiscal   year    2024    and    each   fiscal   year
thereafter, if requested by an agency chief executive officer
and     authorized     and     approved     by      the    Comptroller,    the
Comptroller may direct and the Treasurer shall transfer funds
from the General Revenue Fund to fund payroll expenses that
meet the payroll transaction exception criteria as defined by
the Comptroller in the Statewide Accounting Management System
(SAMS) Manual. The agency shall then transfer these funds back
to the General Revenue Fund within 30 days.
(Source: P.A. 103-8, eff. 6-7-23; 103-588, eff. 6-5-24; 104-2,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


eff. 6-16-25.)


    Section 5-30. The State Revenue Sharing Act is amended by
changing Section 12 as follows:


    (30 ILCS 115/12) (from Ch. 85, par. 616)
    Sec. 12. Personal Property Tax Replacement Fund. There is
hereby created the Personal Property Tax Replacement Fund, a
special fund in the State treasury Treasury into which shall
be paid all revenue realized:
        (a) all amounts realized from the additional personal
    property tax replacement income tax imposed by subsections
    (c) and (d) of Section 201 of the Illinois Income Tax Act,
    except for those amounts deposited into the Income Tax
    Refund Fund pursuant to subsection (c) of Section 901 of
    the Illinois Income Tax Act; and
        (b) all amounts realized from the additional personal
    property replacement invested capital taxes imposed by
    Section 2a.1 of the Messages Tax Act, Section 2a.1 of the
    Gas Revenue Tax Act, Section 2a.1 of the Public Utilities
    Revenue Act, and Section 3 of the Water Company Invested
    Capital Tax Act, and amounts payable to the Department of
    Revenue   under   the    Telecommunications   Infrastructure
    Maintenance Fee Act.
    As soon   as may be     after the end of each    month, the
Department of Revenue shall certify to the Treasurer and the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Comptroller the amount of all refunds paid out of the General
Revenue    Fund    through      the    preceding    month    on    account     of
overpayment of liability on taxes paid into the Personal
Property     Tax      Replacement      Fund.      Upon   receipt       of    such
certification,        the     Treasurer     and    the   Comptroller        shall
transfer the amount so certified from the Personal Property
Tax Replacement Fund into the General Revenue Fund.
    The payments of revenue into the Personal Property Tax
Replacement Fund shall be used exclusively for distribution to
taxing districts, regional offices and officials, and local
officials as provided in this Section and in the School Code,
payment    of   the    ordinary       and   contingent    expenses      of   the
Property Tax Appeal Board, payment of the expenses of the
Department of Revenue incurred in administering the collection
and distribution of moneys monies paid into the Personal
Property Tax Replacement Fund and transfers due to refunds to
taxpayers for overpayment of liability for taxes paid into the
Personal Property Tax Replacement Fund.
    In     addition,        moneys    in    the   Personal     Property      Tax
Replacement Fund may be used to pay any of the following: (i)
salary, stipends, and additional compensation as provided by
law for chief election clerks, county clerks, and county
recorders; (ii) costs associated with regional offices of
education       and         educational      service        centers;        (iii)
reimbursements payable by the State Board of Elections under
Section 4-25, 5-35, 6-71, 13-10, 13-10a, or 13-11 of the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Election Code; (iv) expenses of the Illinois Educational Labor
Relations      Board;     and    (v)    salary,      personal     services,     and
additional compensation as provided by law for court reporters
under the Court Reporters Act.
      As soon as may be after June 26, 1980 (the effective date
of    Public   Act   81-1255),         the    Department    of    Revenue      shall
certify to the Treasurer the amount of net replacement revenue
paid into the General Revenue Fund prior to that effective
date from the additional tax imposed by Section 2a.1 of the
Messages Tax Act; Section 2a.1 of the Gas Revenue Tax Act;
Section 2a.1 of the Public Utilities Revenue Act; Section 3 of
the Water Company Invested Capital Tax Act; amounts collected
by the Department of Revenue under the Telecommunications
Infrastructure       Maintenance         Fee       Act;   and    the    additional
personal property tax replacement income tax imposed by the
Illinois Income Tax Act, as amended by Public Act 81-1st
Special Session-1. Net replacement revenue shall be defined as
the   total    amount     paid    into       and   remaining     in    the   General
Revenue Fund as a result of those Acts minus the amount
outstanding and obligated from the General Revenue Fund in
state    vouchers    or    warrants          prior   to   June   26,    1980    (the
effective date of Public Act 81-1255) as refunds to taxpayers
for overpayment of liability under those Acts.
      All interest earned by moneys monies accumulated in the
Personal Property Tax Replacement Fund shall be deposited into
such Fund. All amounts allocated pursuant to this Section are
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


appropriated on a continuing basis.
    Prior to December 31, 1980, as soon as may be after the end
of each quarter beginning with the quarter ending December 31,
1979, and on and after December 31, 1980, as soon as may be
after January 1, March 1, April 1, May 1, July 1, August 1,
October 1 and December 1 of each year, the Department of
Revenue shall allocate to each taxing district as defined in
Section 1-150 of the Property Tax Code, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (2) of this Section the portion of the
funds held in the Personal Property Tax Replacement Fund which
is required to be distributed, as provided in paragraph (1),
for each quarter. Provided, however, under no circumstances
shall any taxing district during each of the first 2 years of
distribution of the taxes imposed by Public Act 81-1st Special
Session-1 be entitled to an annual allocation which is less
than the funds such taxing district collected from the 1978
personal   property      tax.   Provided   further    that   under    no
circumstances shall any taxing district during the third year
of distribution of the taxes imposed by Public Act 81-1st
Special Session-1 receive less than 60% of the funds such
taxing district collected from the 1978 personal property tax.
In the event that the total of the allocations made as above
provided for all taxing districts, during either of such 3
years,   exceeds   the   amount   available   for    distribution    the
allocation of each taxing district shall be proportionately
reduced. Except as provided in Section 13 of this Act, the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Department shall then certify, pursuant to appropriation, such
allocations to the State Comptroller who shall pay over to the
several taxing districts the respective amounts allocated to
them.
      Any township which receives an allocation based in whole
or    in   part   upon   personal     property     taxes    which    it   levied
pursuant to Section 6-507 or 6-512 of the Illinois Highway
Code and which was previously required to be paid over to a
municipality shall immediately pay over to that municipality a
proportionate share of the personal property replacement funds
which such township receives.
      Any municipality or township, other than a municipality
with a population in excess of 500,000, which receives an
allocation based in whole or in part on personal property
taxes which it levied pursuant to Sections 3-1, 3-4 and 3-6 of
the    Illinois    Local   Library     Act   and    which    was    previously
required to be paid over to a public library shall immediately
pay over to that library a proportionate share of the personal
property tax replacement funds which such municipality or
township receives; provided that if such a public library has
converted to a library organized under the Illinois Public
Library District Act, regardless of whether such conversion
has    occurred    on,   after   or    before    January     1,     1988,   such
proportionate share shall be immediately paid over to the
library district which maintains and operates the library.
However, any library that has converted prior to January 1,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


1988,   and    which      hitherto      has     not    received         the   personal
property   tax      replacement      funds,      shall      receive       such     funds
commencing on January 1, 1988.
    Any township which receives an allocation based in whole
or in part on personal property taxes which it levied pursuant
to Section 1c of the Public Graveyards Act and which taxes were
previously required to be paid over to or used for such public
cemetery or cemeteries shall immediately pay over to or use
for such public cemetery or cemeteries a proportionate share
of the personal property tax replacement funds which the
township receives.
    Any taxing district which receives an allocation based in
whole or in part upon personal property taxes which it levied
for another governmental body or school district in Cook
County in 1976 or for another governmental body or school
district      in   the     remainder      of    the     State      in    1977      shall
immediately pay over to that governmental body or school
district the amount of personal property replacement funds
which such governmental body or school district would receive
directly   under         the   provisions       of    paragraph         (2)   of    this
Section, had it levied its own taxes.
         (1)       The    portion    of        the    Personal      Property        Tax
    Replacement Fund required to be distributed as of the time
    allocation is required to be made shall be the amount
    available       in    such   Fund    as     of    the   time    allocation        is
    required to be made.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


          The amount available for distribution shall be the
    total amount in the fund at such time minus the necessary
    administrative and other authorized expenses as limited by
    the appropriation and the amount determined by: (a) $2.8
    million for fiscal year 1981; (b) for fiscal year 1982,
    .54% of the funds distributed from the fund during the
    preceding fiscal year; (c) for fiscal year 1983 through
    fiscal year 1988, .54% of the funds distributed from the
    fund during the preceding fiscal year less .02% of such
    fund for fiscal year 1983 and less .02% of such funds for
    each fiscal year thereafter; (d) for fiscal year 1989
    through fiscal year 2011 no more than 105% of the actual
    administrative expenses of the prior fiscal year; (e) for
    fiscal year 2012 and beyond, a sufficient amount to pay
    (i)      stipends,        additional      compensation,      salary
    reimbursements, and other amounts directed to be paid out
    of this Fund for local officials as authorized or required
    by statute and (ii) the ordinary and contingent expenses
    of the Property Tax Appeal Board and the expenses of the
    Department     of    Revenue   incurred    in    administering     the
    collection and distribution of moneys paid into the Fund;
    (f) for fiscal years 2012 and 2013 only, a sufficient
    amount to pay stipends, additional compensation, salary
    reimbursements, and other amounts directed to be paid out
    of    this   Fund   for   regional     offices   and   officials    as
    authorized or required by statute; (g) for fiscal years
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    2018 through 2027 2026 only, a sufficient amount to pay
    amounts directed to be paid out of this Fund for public
    community college base operating grants and local health
    protection grants to certified local health departments as
    authorized or required by appropriation or statute; and
    (h) for fiscal years year 2026 and 2027 only, a sufficient
    amount to pay amounts directed to be paid out of this Fund
    for costs associated with the Illinois Century Network and
    broadband        projects       as    authorized        or     required       by
    appropriation or statute. Such portion of the fund shall
    be determined after the transfer into the General Revenue
    Fund due to refunds, if any, paid from the General Revenue
    Fund during the preceding quarter. If at any time, for any
    reason,     there      is    insufficient      amount    in    the    Personal
    Property Tax Replacement Fund for payments for regional
    offices and officials or local officials or payment of
    costs of administration or for transfers due to refunds at
    the   end   of    any       particular   month,    the       amount   of    such
    insufficiency shall be carried over for the purposes of
    payments     for       regional      offices    and     officials,         local
    officials, transfers into the General Revenue Fund, and
    costs of administration to the following month or months.
    Net replacement revenue held, and defined above, shall be
    transferred       by    the    Treasurer    and    Comptroller         to   the
    Personal Property Tax Replacement Fund within 10 days of
    such certification.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


          (2)   Each     quarterly    allocation    shall      first    be
    apportioned in the following manner: 51.65% for taxing
    districts in Cook County and 48.35% for taxing districts
    in the remainder of the State.
    The Personal Property Replacement Ratio of each taxing
district outside Cook County shall be the ratio which the Tax
Base of that taxing district bears to the Downstate Tax Base.
The Tax Base of each taxing district outside of Cook County is
the personal property tax collections for that taxing district
for the 1977 tax year. The Downstate Tax Base is the personal
property tax collections for all taxing districts in the State
outside of Cook County for the 1977 tax year. The Department of
Revenue   shall   have    authority   to   review   for   accuracy     and
completeness the personal property tax collections for each
taxing district outside Cook County for the 1977 tax year.
    The   Personal     Property   Replacement   Ratio     of   each    Cook
County taxing district shall be the ratio which the Tax Base of
that taxing district bears to the Cook County Tax Base. The Tax
Base of each Cook County taxing district is the personal
property tax collections for that taxing district for the 1976
tax year. The Cook County Tax Base is the personal property tax
collections for all taxing districts in Cook County for the
1976 tax year. The Department of Revenue shall have authority
to review for accuracy and completeness the personal property
tax collections for each taxing district within Cook County
for the 1976 tax year.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      For all purposes of this Section 12, amounts paid to a
taxing district for such tax years as may be applicable by a
foreign corporation under the provisions of Section 7-202 of
the Public Utilities Act, as amended, shall be deemed to be
personal property taxes collected by such taxing district for
such   tax   years    as   may    be     applicable.    The   Director     shall
determine from the Illinois Commerce Commission, for any tax
year as may be applicable, the amounts so paid by any such
foreign corporation to any and all taxing districts. The
Illinois Commerce Commission shall furnish such information to
the    Director.     For   all    purposes    of    this    Section      12,   the
Director shall deem such amounts to be collected personal
property taxes of each such taxing district for the applicable
tax year or years.
      Taxing districts located both in Cook County and in one or
more    other   counties         shall    receive    both     a   Cook    County
allocation and a Downstate allocation determined in the same
way as all other taxing districts.
      If any taxing district in existence on July 1, 1979 ceases
to exist, or discontinues its operations, its Tax Base shall
thereafter be deemed to be zero. If the powers, duties and
obligations of the discontinued taxing district are assumed by
another taxing district, the Tax Base of the discontinued
taxing district shall be added to the Tax Base of the taxing
district assuming such powers, duties and obligations.
      If 2 or more taxing districts in existence on July 1, 1979,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


or a successor or successors thereto shall consolidate into
one taxing district, the Tax Base of such consolidated taxing
district shall be the sum of the Tax Bases of each of the
taxing districts which have consolidated.
    If a single taxing district in existence on July 1, 1979,
or a successor or successors thereto shall be divided into 2 or
more separate taxing districts, the tax base of the taxing
district     so     divided   shall    be    allocated    to   each    of   the
resulting taxing districts in proportion to the then current
equalized assessed value of each resulting taxing district.
    If a portion of the territory of a taxing district is
disconnected and annexed to another taxing district of the
same type, the Tax Base of the taxing district from which
disconnection was made shall be reduced in proportion to the
then current equalized assessed value of the disconnected
territory as compared with the then current equalized assessed
value within the entire territory of the taxing district prior
to disconnection, and the amount of such reduction shall be
added   to    the    Tax   Base   of   the    taxing     district     to   which
annexation is made.
    If a community college district is created after July 1,
1979, beginning on January 1, 1996 (the effective date of
Public Act 89-327), its Tax Base shall be 3.5% of the sum of
the personal property tax collected for the 1977 tax year
within the territorial jurisdiction of the district.
    The      amounts    allocated      and   paid   to    taxing    districts
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


pursuant    to    the   provisions       of   Public    Act    81-1st    Special
Session-1 shall be deemed to be substitute revenues for the
revenues    derived     from    taxes    imposed    on      personal    property
pursuant to the provisions of the "Revenue Act of 1939" or "An
Act   for   the    assessment      and   taxation      of   private     car   line
companies", approved July 22, 1943, as amended, or Section 414
of the Illinois Insurance Code, prior to the abolition of such
taxes and shall be used for the same purposes as the revenues
derived from ad valorem taxes on real estate.
      Moneys Monies received by any taxing districts from the
Personal Property Tax Replacement Fund shall be first applied
toward payment of the proportionate amount of debt service
which was previously levied and collected from extensions
against personal property on bonds outstanding as of December
31, 1978 and next applied toward payment of the proportionate
share of the pension or retirement obligations of the taxing
district    which    were    previously       levied    and    collected      from
extensions        against     personal        property.       For   each      such
outstanding bond issue, the County Clerk shall determine the
percentage    of    the     debt   service     which    was    collected      from
extensions against real estate in the taxing district for 1978
taxes payable in 1979, as related to the total amount of such
levies and collections from extensions against both real and
personal property. For 1979 and subsequent years' taxes, the
County Clerk shall levy and extend taxes against the real
estate of each taxing district which will yield the said
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


percentage     or    percentages      of    the    debt   service      on    such
outstanding bonds. The balance of the amount necessary to
fully pay such debt service shall constitute a first and prior
lien upon the moneys monies received by each such taxing
district through the Personal Property Tax Replacement Fund
and shall be first applied or set aside for such purpose. In
counties     having      fewer   than      3,000,000      inhabitants,        the
amendments to this paragraph as made by Public Act 81-1255
shall be first applicable to 1980 taxes to be collected in
1981.
(Source: P.A. 103-8, eff. 6-7-23; 103-588, eff. 6-5-24; 104-2,
eff. 6-16-25.)


    Section 5-35. The Illinois Procurement Code is amended by
changing Sections 1-15.15 and 10-20 as follows:


    (30 ILCS 500/1-15.15)
    Sec.      1-15.15.      Chief       Procurement       Officer.          "Chief
Procurement Officer" means any of the 4 persons appointed or
approved by a majority of the members of the Executive Ethics
Commission:
        (1)        for   procurements       for    (i)    construction        and
    construction-related         services     committed     by   law    to    the
    jurisdiction or responsibility of the Capital Development
    Board     or     (ii)   construction      and     construction-related
    services        committed    by   law     to    the    jurisdiction        or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    responsibility of the Department of Central Management
    Services      under    Section       405-217   of    the        Department    of
    Central       Management        Services       Law         of      the    Civil
    Administrative         Code     of    Illinois       and        other    related
    provisions of this amendatory Act of the 104th General
    Assembly,      the     independent        chief     procurement          officer
    appointed by a majority of the members of the Executive
    Ethics Commission.
          (2)     for      procurements        for       all         construction,
    construction-related services, operation of any facility,
    and     the         provision        of     any       construction            or
    construction-related service or activity committed by law
    to the jurisdiction or responsibility of the Illinois
    Department     of     Transportation,       including       the     direct    or
    reimbursable expenditure of all federal funds for which
    the    Department       of    Transportation         is     responsible       or
    accountable for the use thereof in accordance with federal
    law,   regulation,       or    procedure,      the    independent         chief
    procurement         officer     appointed      by    the        Secretary     of
    Transportation with the consent of the majority of the
    members of the Executive Ethics Commission.
          (3) for all procurements made by a public institution
    of higher education, the independent chief procurement
    officer appointed by a majority of the members of the
    Executive Ethics Commission.
          (4) (Blank).
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


          (5) for all other procurements, the independent chief
    procurement officer appointed by a majority of the members
    of the Executive Ethics Commission.
(Source: P.A. 104-2, eff. 6-16-25.)


    (30 ILCS 500/10-20)
    Sec. 10-20. Independent chief procurement officers.
    (a) Appointment. Within 60 calendar days after July 1,
2010 (the effective date of Public Act 96-795), the Executive
Ethics Commission, with the advice and consent of the Senate
shall appoint or approve 4 chief procurement officers, one for
each of the following categories:
          (1)   for    procurements     for     (i)    construction           and
    construction-related      services       committed      by    law   to    the
    jurisdiction or responsibility of the Capital Development
    Board or (ii) construction-related services committed by
    law    to   the    jurisdiction     or     responsibility           of    the
    Department    of    for   Central    Management         Services         under
    Section 405-217 of the Department of Central Management
    Services Law of the Civil Administrative Code of Illinois
    and other related provisions of Public Act 104-2 this
    amendatory Act of the 104th General Assembly;
          (2)    for    procurements         for      all        construction,
    construction-related services, operation of any facility,
    and the provision of any service or activity committed by
    law to the jurisdiction or responsibility of the Illinois
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Department    of     Transportation,    including         the    direct    or
    reimbursable expenditure of all federal funds for which
    the     Department     of    Transportation        is     responsible      or
    accountable for the use thereof in accordance with federal
    law,    regulation,     or    procedure,     the    chief       procurement
    officer recommended for approval under this item appointed
    by the Secretary of Transportation after consent by the
    Executive Ethics Commission;
          (3) for all procurements made by a public institution
    of higher education; and
          (4) for all other procurement needs of State agencies.
    For fiscal years 2024 through 2027, 2025, and 2026, the
Executive     Ethics     Commission    shall      set       aside    from     its
appropriation those amounts necessary for the use of the 4
chief procurement officers for the ordinary and contingent
expenses of their respective procurement offices. From the
amounts set aside by the Commission, each chief procurement
officer shall control the internal operations of his or her
procurement office and shall procure the necessary equipment,
materials, and services to perform the duties of that office,
including     hiring     necessary    procurement           personnel,      legal
advisors, and other employees, and may establish, in the
exercise of the chief procurement officer's discretion, the
compensation of the office's employees, which includes the
State     purchasing     officers    and   any     legal       advisors.      The
Executive Ethics Commission shall have no control over the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


employees of the chief procurement officers. The Executive
Ethics     Commission      shall    provide    administrative         support
services, including payroll, for each procurement office.
     (b) Terms and independence. Each chief procurement officer
appointed under this Section shall serve for a term of 5 years
beginning on the date of the officer's appointment. The chief
procurement officer may be removed for cause after a hearing
by   the   Executive      Ethics   Commission.      The    Governor   or    the
director    of   a   State     agency    directly    responsible      to    the
Governor may institute a complaint against the officer by
filing such complaint with the Commission. The Commission
shall have a hearing based on the complaint. The officer and
the complainant shall receive reasonable notice of the hearing
and shall be permitted to present their respective arguments
on the complaint. After the hearing, the Commission shall make
a finding on the complaint and may take disciplinary action,
including, but not limited to, removal of the officer.
     The   salary    of    a   chief    procurement       officer   shall    be
established by the Executive Ethics Commission and may not be
diminished during the officer's term. The salary may not
exceed the salary of the director of a State agency for which
the officer serves as chief procurement officer.
     (c) Qualifications. In addition to any other requirement
or qualification required by State law, each chief procurement
officer must within 12 months of employment be a Certified
Professional Public Buyer or a Certified Public Purchasing
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Officer, pursuant to certification by the Universal Public
Purchasing Certification Council, and must reside in Illinois.
    (d) Fiduciary duty. Each chief procurement officer owes a
fiduciary duty to the State.
    (e) Vacancy. In case of a vacancy in one or more of the
offices of a chief procurement officer under this Section
during     the   recess   of    the   Senate,     the   Executive    Ethics
Commission shall make a temporary appointment until the next
meeting of the Senate, when the Executive Ethics Commission
shall nominate some person to fill the office, and any person
so nominated who is confirmed by the Senate shall hold office
during the remainder of the term and until his or her successor
is appointed and qualified. If the Senate is not in session at
the time Public Act 96-920 takes effect, the Executive Ethics
Commission shall make a temporary appointment as in the case
of a vacancy.
    (f) (Blank).
    (g) (Blank).
(Source:    P.A.   103-8,      eff.   6-7-23;   103-588,     eff.   6-5-24;
103-605,    eff.   7-1-24;      103-865,   eff.    1-1-25;   104-2,    eff.
6-16-25.)


    Section 5-40. The Illinois Works Jobs Program Act is
amended by changing Section 20-15 as follows:


    (30 ILCS 559/20-15)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-458)
      Sec.   20-15.       Illinois    Works     Preapprenticeship      Program;
Illinois Works Bid Credit Program.
      (a)    The    Illinois      Works   Preapprenticeship        Program    is
established and shall be administered by the Department. The
goal of the Illinois Works Preapprenticeship Program is to
create a network of community-based organizations throughout
the    State       that    will      recruit,       prescreen,   and    provide
preapprenticeship skills training, for which participants may
attend free of charge and receive a stipend, to create a
qualified, diverse pipeline of workers who are prepared for
careers      in    the    construction        and    building    trades.     Upon
completion of the Illinois Works Preapprenticeship Program,
the candidates will be skilled and work-ready.
      (b) There is created the Illinois Works Fund, a special
fund in the State treasury. The Illinois Works Fund shall be
administered by the Department. The Illinois Works Fund shall
be used to provide funding for community-based organizations
throughout the State and to pay the associated operational
expenses of the Department in administering the Illinois Works
Preapprenticeship Program. In addition to any other transfers
that may be provided for by law, on and after July 1, 2019 at
the direction of the Director of the Governor's Office of
Management and Budget, the State Comptroller shall direct and
the State Treasurer shall transfer amounts not exceeding a
total of $50,000,000 from the Rebuild Illinois Projects Fund
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


to the Illinois Works Fund.
    (b-5) In addition to any other transfers that may be
provided for by law, beginning July 1, 2024 and each July 1
thereafter, or as soon thereafter as practical, the State
Comptroller      shall    direct     and    the     State    Treasurer        shall
transfer $27,500,000 from the Capital Projects Fund to the
Illinois Works Fund.
    (c)    Each     community-based         organization       that     receives
funding from the Illinois Works Fund shall provide an annual
report to the Illinois Works Review Panel by April 1 of each
calendar year. The annual report shall include the following
information:
          (1)      a     description         of      the      community-based
    organization's        recruitment,        screening,        and     training
    efforts;
          (2)     the    number     of     individuals       who      apply    to,
    participate         in,   and        complete     the     community-based
    organization's program, broken down by race, gender, age,
    and veteran status; and
    (3) the number of the individuals referenced in item (2)
    of this subsection who are initially accepted and placed
    into   apprenticeship         programs     in    the     construction      and
    building trades.
    (d)    The    Department       shall    create     and    administer       the
Illinois Works Bid Credit Program that shall provide economic
incentives, through bid credits, to encourage contractors and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


subcontractors        to     provide       contracting      and     employment
opportunities to historically underrepresented populations in
the construction industry.
      The     Illinois     Works    Bid    Credit     Program     shall   allow
contractors and subcontractors to earn bid credits for use
toward future bids for public works projects contracted by the
State or an agency of the State in order to increase the
chances that the contractor and the subcontractors will be
selected.
      Contractors or subcontractors may be eligible to earn bid
credits     for    employing     apprentices     who   have     completed   the
Illinois      Works   Preapprenticeship         Program.      Contractors    or
subcontractors shall earn bid credits at a rate established by
the Department and based on labor hours worked by apprentices
who    have    completed     the     Illinois    Works     Preapprenticeship
Program.      In   order    to     earn   bid   credits,    contractors     and
subcontractors shall provide the Department with certified
payroll documenting the hours performed by apprentices who
have completed the Illinois Works Preapprenticeship Program.
Contractors and subcontractors can use bid credits toward
future bids for public works projects contracted or funded by
the State or an agency of the State in order to increase the
likelihood of being selected as the contractor for the public
works project toward which they have applied the bid credit.
The Department shall establish the rate by rule and shall
publish it on the Department's website. The rule may include
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


maximum bid credits allowed per contractor, per subcontractor,
per apprentice, per bid, or per year.
    The Illinois Works Credit Bank is hereby created and shall
be administered by the Department. The Illinois Works Credit
Bank shall track the bid credits.
    A contractor or subcontractor who has been awarded bid
credits   under   any     other        State    program    for   employing
apprentices   who       have    completed         the     Illinois   Works
Preapprenticeship     Program     is    not    eligible   to   receive   bid
credits under the Illinois Works Bid Credit Program relating
to the same contract.
    The Department shall report to the Illinois Works Review
Panel the following: (i) the number of bid credits awarded by
the Department; (ii) the number of bid credits submitted by
the contractor or subcontractor to the agency administering
the public works contract; and (iii) the number of bid credits
accepted by the agency for such contract. Any agency that
awards bid credits pursuant to the Illinois Works Credit Bank
Program shall report to the Department the number of bid
credits it accepted for the public works contract.
    Upon a finding that a contractor or subcontractor has
reported falsified records to the Department in order to
fraudulently obtain bid credits, the Department may bar the
contractor or subcontractor from participating in the Illinois
Works Bid Credit Program and may suspend the contractor or
subcontractor from bidding on or participating in any public
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


works project. False or fraudulent claims for payment relating
to false bid credits may be subject to damages and penalties
under applicable law.
      (e) The Department shall adopt any rules deemed necessary
to    implement      this    Section.       In     order     to       provide    for    the
expeditious        and     timely     implementation             of    this     Act,    the
Department         may    adopt     emergency           rules.    The     adoption       of
emergency rules authorized by this subsection is deemed to be
necessary for the public interest, safety, and welfare.
(Source:     P.A.        103-8,    eff.    6-7-23;        103-305,      eff.     7-28-23;
103-588,     eff.        6-5-24;    103-605,       eff.     7-1-24;       104-2,        eff.
6-16-25.)


      (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-458)
      Sec.   20-15.        Illinois       Works    Preapprenticeship             Program;
Illinois Works Bid Credit Program.
      (a)    The    Illinois        Works    Preapprenticeship                Program    is
established and shall be administered by the Department. The
goal of the Illinois Works Preapprenticeship Program is to
create a network of community-based organizations throughout
the    State       that     will      recruit,          prescreen,        and     provide
preapprenticeship skills training, for which participants may
attend free of charge and receive a stipend, to create a
qualified, diverse pipeline of workers who are prepared for
careers      in     the     construction          and     building       trades.        Upon
completion of the Illinois Works Preapprenticeship Program,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the candidates will be skilled and work-ready.
    (b) There is created the Illinois Works Fund, a special
fund in the State treasury. The Illinois Works Fund shall be
administered by the Department. The Illinois Works Fund shall
be used to provide funding for community-based organizations
throughout the State and to pay the associated operational
expenses of the Department in administering the Illinois Works
Preapprenticeship Program. In addition to any other transfers
that may be provided for by law, on and after July 1, 2019 at
the direction of the Director of the Governor's Office of
Management and Budget, the State Comptroller shall direct and
the State Treasurer shall transfer amounts not exceeding a
total of $50,000,000 from the Rebuild Illinois Projects Fund
to the Illinois Works Fund.
    (b-5) In addition to any other transfers that may be
provided for by law, beginning July 1, 2024 and each July 1
thereafter, or as soon thereafter as practical, the State
Comptroller     shall   direct   and   the   State    Treasurer   shall
transfer $27,500,000 from the Capital Projects Fund to the
Illinois Works Fund.
    (c)    Each   community-based      organization    that   receives
funding from the Illinois Works Fund shall provide an annual
report to the Illinois Works Review Panel by April 1 of each
calendar year. The annual report shall include the following
information:
          (1)     a     description     of    the      community-based
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      organization's           recruitment,        screening,        and     training
      efforts;
            (2)    the        number    of      individuals       who      apply    to,
      participate        in,      and         complete     the     community-based
      organization's program, broken down by race, gender, age,
      and veteran status; and
      (3) the number of the individuals referenced in item (2)
      of this subsection who are initially accepted and placed
      into   apprenticeship            programs     in    the     construction      and
      building trades.
      (d)    The   Department          shall     create     and    administer       the
Illinois Works Bid Credit Program that shall provide economic
incentives, through bid credits, to encourage contractors and
subcontractors           to     provide         contracting        and     employment
opportunities to historically underrepresented populations in
the construction industry.
      The    Illinois         Works     Bid     Credit     Program       shall     allow
contractors and subcontractors to earn bid credits for use
toward future bids for public works projects contracted by the
State or an agency of the State in order to increase the
chances that the contractor and the subcontractors will be
selected.
      Contractors or subcontractors may be eligible to earn bid
credits for employing apprentices who have been verified by
the    Department         to     have     completed        the     Illinois        Works
Preapprenticeship Program, the Climate Works Preapprenticeship
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Program, or the Highway Construction Careers Training Program.
Contractors or subcontractors shall earn bid credits at a rate
established by the Department and based on labor hours worked
by apprentices who have been verified by the Department to
have completed the Illinois Works Preapprenticeship Program,
the Climate Works Preapprenticeship Program, or the Highway
Construction Careers Training Program. In order to earn bid
credits,    contractors    and     subcontractors      shall   provide     the
Department    with     certified    payroll     documenting     the    hours
performed    by    apprentices     who   have   been    verified      by   the
Department        to   have      completed      the      Illinois      Works
Preapprenticeship Program, the Climate Works Preapprenticeship
Program, or the Highway Construction Careers Training Program.
Contractors and subcontractors can use bid credits toward
future bids for public works projects contracted or funded by
the State or an agency of the State in order to increase the
likelihood of being selected as the contractor for the public
works project toward which they have applied the bid credit.
The Department shall establish the rate by rule and shall
publish it on the Department's website. The rule may include
maximum bid credits allowed per contractor, per subcontractor,
per apprentice, per bid, or per year.
    The Illinois Works Credit Bank is hereby created and shall
be administered by the Department. The Illinois Works Credit
Bank shall track the bid credits.
    A contractor or subcontractor who has been awarded bid
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


credits   under        any     other        State    program      for     employing
apprentices       who        have    completed           the    Illinois         Works
Preapprenticeship        Program       is    not    eligible     to   receive     bid
credits under the Illinois Works Bid Credit Program relating
to the same contract.
     The Department shall report to the Illinois Works Review
Panel the following: (i) the number of bid credits awarded by
the Department; (ii) the number of bid credits submitted by
the contractor or subcontractor to the agency administering
the public works contract; and (iii) the number of bid credits
accepted by the agency for such contract. Any agency that
awards bid credits pursuant to the Illinois Works Credit Bank
Program shall report to the Department the number of bid
credits it accepted for the public works contract.
     Upon a finding that a contractor or subcontractor has
reported falsified records to the Department in order to
fraudulently obtain bid credits, the Department may bar the
contractor or subcontractor from participating in the Illinois
Works Bid Credit Program and may suspend the contractor or
subcontractor from bidding on or participating in any public
works project. False or fraudulent claims for payment relating
to false bid credits may be subject to damages and penalties
under applicable law.
     (e) The Department shall adopt any rules deemed necessary
to   implement    this       Section.       In   order    to    provide    for    the
expeditious      and    timely      implementation         of    this     Act,    the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Department    may     adopt       emergency          rules.    The     adoption       of
emergency rules authorized by this subsection is deemed to be
necessary for the public interest, safety, and welfare.
(Source:    P.A.    103-8,       eff.    6-7-23;       103-305,       eff.       7-28-23;
103-588,    eff.    6-5-24;       103-605,      eff.        7-1-24;    104-2,       eff.
6-16-25; 104-458, eff. 6-1-26.)


    Section 5-42. The Illinois Coal Technology Development
Assistance Act is amended by changing Section 3 as follows:


    (30 ILCS 730/3) (from Ch. 96 1/2, par. 8203)
    Sec.     3.    Transfers        to     Coal       Technology        Development
Assistance Fund.
    (a) As soon as may be practicable after the first day of
each month, the Department of Revenue shall certify to the
Treasurer an amount equal to 1/64 of the revenue realized from
the tax imposed by the Electricity Excise Tax Law, Section 2 of
the Public Utilities Revenue Act, Section 2 of the Messages
Tax Act, and Section 2 of the Gas Revenue Tax Act, during the
preceding    month.       Upon    receipt       of    the     certification,         the
Treasurer     shall       transfer        the        amount     shown        on     such
certification      from    the     General      Revenue       Fund     to    the    Coal
Technology    Development         Assistance          Fund,    which        is    hereby
created as a special fund in the State treasury, except that no
transfer shall be made in any month in which the Fund has
reached the following balance:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        (1) (Blank).
        (2) (Blank).
        (3) (Blank).
        (4) (Blank).
        (5) (Blank).
        (6) Except Expect as otherwise provided in subsection
    (b),     during      fiscal   year   2006       and    each       fiscal    year
    thereafter, an amount equal to the sum of $10,000,000 plus
    additional      moneys    deposited      into     the      Coal     Technology
    Development       Assistance     Fund    from    the       Renewable       Energy
    Resources      and     Coal   Technology        Development         Assistance
    Charge under Section 6.5 of the Renewable Energy, Energy
    Efficiency, and Coal Resources Development Law of 1997.
    (b) During fiscal years 2019                through 2022 and during
fiscal year 2027 only, the Treasurer shall make no transfers
from   the    General      Revenue    Fund    to     the       Coal     Technology
Development Assistance Fund.
(Source: P.A. 101-10, eff. 6-5-19; 101-636, eff. 6-10-20;
102-16, eff. 6-17-21.)


    Section 5-43. The Illinois Equal Justice Act is amended by
changing Section 15 as follows:


    (30 ILCS 765/15) (from Ch. 5, par. 2050-15)
    Sec.     15.   Foundation;       distribution         of   funds     to    legal
information centers, regional legal services hotlines, dispute
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


resolution centers, self-help assistance desks, or civil legal
services providers.
    (a) The Foundation shall establish and administer the
Illinois Equal Justice Fund. The Fund consists of all moneys
remitted to the Foundation under the terms of this Act. The
Foundation must deposit all moneys received under this Act
into      interest-bearing            accounts.        Administration         and
distribution of these funds by the Foundation does not alter
their    character     as    public    funds     or    alter    the    fiduciary
responsibilities attendant to the administration of public
funds.
    (b) Through State Fiscal Year 2026, the The Foundation may
annually retain a portion of the amounts it receives under
this Section, not to exceed 5% of the amounts received by the
Foundation under this Act, to reimburse the Foundation for the
actual    cost    of        administering      grants     and     making      the
distributions     required      under     this    Act    during       that   year.
Beginning   in    State      Fiscal    Year    2027,    the    Foundation     may
annually retain a portion of the amounts it receives under
this Section, not to exceed 15% of the amounts received by the
Foundation under this Act, to reimburse the Foundation for the
actual    cost    of        administering      grants     and     making      the
distributions required under this Act during that year.
    (c)     The    distribution         of     moneys     available          after
administrative costs shall be made by the Foundation in the
following manner:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


         (1) The Foundation shall distribute moneys to legal
    information centers that have demonstrated or demonstrate
    an ability to provide the services described in Section 10
    of   this   Act    and   that   otherwise     comply   with   the
    requirements of this Act with the objective that one or
    more legal information centers will be operated in each
    judicial circuit of this State.
         (2) The Foundation shall distribute funds to regional
    legal   services    hotlines    that   have    demonstrated    or
    demonstrate an ability to provide the services described
    in Section 10 of this Act and that otherwise comply with
    the requirements of this Act.
         (3) The Foundation shall distribute funds to self-help
    assistance desks that have demonstrated or demonstrate an
    ability to provide the services described in Section 10 of
    this Act and that otherwise comply with the requirements
    of this Act.
         (4) The Foundation shall distribute funds to dispute
    resolution centers that have demonstrated or demonstrate
    compliance with the requirements of Section 5 of the
    Illinois Not-For-Profit Dispute Resolution Center Act.
         (5) The Foundation shall distribute funds to qualified
    civil legal services providers operating in one or more
    counties within this State. The Foundation shall determine
    the amounts to be distributed to each qualified civil
    legal services provider based upon the following criteria:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


              (A) the number of eligible clients served and the
        nature of the civil legal services caseload of each
        qualified civil legal services provider compared to
        all other qualified civil legal services providers in
        this State;
              (B) the qualified civil legal services provider's
        satisfactory compliance with Section 50 of this Act;
        and
              (C) the qualified civil legal services provider's
        general compliance with the following standards:
                  (i)      the         quality,        feasibility,         and
              cost-effectiveness        of   the    civil     legal   services
              provider's legal services as evidenced by, among
              other things, the experience of the civil legal
              services provider's staff with the delivery of the
              type of legal assistance contemplated under the
              proposal;    compatibility        with    the    American     Bar
              Association's      Standards      for    Providers      of   Civil
              Legal Services for the Poor, where applicable; the
              civil     legal     services         provider's      compliance
              experience        with    other       funding     sources       or
              regulatory agencies, including but not limited to
              federal or State agencies, bar associations or
              foundations, courts, IOLTA programs, and private
              foundations; the reputations of the civil legal
              services provider's principals and key staff; and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


            the civil legal services provider's capacity to
            ensure continuity in representation of eligible
            clients with pending matters, including pending
            matters       referred     from   other      legal     services
            providers;
                  (ii)    the    civil    legal   services       provider's
            knowledge of the various components of the legal
            services delivery system in the State and its
            willingness          to    coordinate       with     them    as
            appropriate, including its capacity to:
                      (I) develop and increase resources from
                  funds other than those provided under this
                  Act; and
                      (II) cooperate with State and local bar
                  associations, private attorneys, and pro bono
                  programs       to   increase    the    involvement     of
                  private attorneys in the delivery of legal
                  assistance and the availability of pro bono
                  legal services to eligible clients; and
                  (iii)    the    civil   legal   services       provider's
            knowledge and willingness to cooperate with other
            civil legal services providers, community groups,
            public interest organizations, and human services
            providers in a manner that is consistent with the
            Illinois Rules of Professional Conduct.
    (d) The Foundation must give annual notice of the amount
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


of moneys available for distribution; the procedure by which
legal information centers, regional legal services hotlines,
dispute resolution centers, self-help assistance desks, and
qualified civil legal services providers can apply for moneys;
and the schedule for review and distribution of moneys under
this Act.
    (e)   The   governing   board    of   the    Foundation   may   adopt
regulations and procedures necessary to implement and enforce
this Act and to ensure that the moneys allocated under this Act
are used to provide services to persons in accordance with the
terms of this Act.
    In adopting the regulations, the governing board must
comply with the following procedures:
          (1) the governing board must publish a preliminary
    draft of the regulations and procedures that must                  be
    distributed, together with notice of the comment period,
    to members of the Foundation, potential recipients of
    moneys, and other interested parties that the Foundation
    considers appropriate; and
          (2) the governing board must allow a reasonable time
    period for affected and interested parties to present
    written comment regarding the proposed regulations and
    procedures    before    the     governing     board   adopts    final
    regulations and procedures.
    (f) The Foundation shall make payments to recipients on a
calendar-year basis in quarterly installments.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


(Source: P.A. 91-584, eff. 1-1-00.)


    Section 5-45. The Illinois Income Tax Act is amended by
changing Sections 901 and 917 as follows:


    (35 ILCS 5/901)
    Sec. 901. Collection authority.
    (a) In general. The Department shall collect the taxes
imposed by this Act. The Department shall collect certified
past due child support amounts under Section 2505-650 of the
Department of Revenue Law of the Civil Administrative Code of
Illinois. Except as provided in subsections (b), (c), (e),
(f), (g), and (h) of this Section, money collected pursuant to
subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act shall be
paid into the General Revenue Fund in the State treasury;
money collected pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of Section
201 of this Act shall be paid into the Personal Property Tax
Replacement     Fund,   a   special   fund   in   the   State   treasury
Treasury; and money collected under Section 2505-650 of the
Department of Revenue Law of the Civil Administrative Code of
Illinois shall be paid into the Child Support Enforcement
Trust   Fund,    a   special   fund   outside     the   State   treasury
Treasury, or to the State Disbursement Unit established under
Section 10-26 of the Illinois Public Aid Code, as directed by
the Department of Healthcare and Family Services.
    (b) Local Government Distributive Fund. Beginning August
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


1, 2017 and continuing through July 31, 2022, the Treasurer
shall transfer each month from the General Revenue Fund to the
Local Government Distributive Fund an amount equal to the sum
of: (i) 6.06% (10% of the ratio of the 3% individual income tax
rate prior to 2011 to the 4.95% individual income tax rate
after July 1, 2017) of the net revenue realized from the tax
imposed by subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act
upon individuals, trusts, and estates during the preceding
month; (ii) 6.85% (10% of the ratio of the 4.8% corporate
income tax rate prior to 2011 to the 7% corporate income tax
rate after July 1, 2017) of the net revenue realized from the
tax imposed by subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this
Act upon corporations during the preceding month; and (iii)
beginning February 1, 2022, 6.06% of the net revenue realized
from the tax imposed by subsection (p) of Section 201 of this
Act upon electing pass-through entities. Beginning August 1,
2022 and continuing through July 31, 2023, the Treasurer shall
transfer each month from the General Revenue Fund to the Local
Government Distributive Fund an amount equal to the sum of:
(i) 6.16% of the net revenue realized from the tax imposed by
subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act upon
individuals, trusts, and estates during the preceding month;
(ii) 6.85% of the net revenue realized from the tax imposed by
subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act upon
corporations during the preceding month; and (iii) 6.16% of
the net revenue realized from the tax imposed by subsection
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


(p) of Section 201 of this Act upon electing pass-through
entities.   Beginning   August   1,   2023,   the   Treasurer   shall
transfer each month from the General Revenue Fund to the Local
Government Distributive Fund an amount equal to the sum of:
(i) 6.47% of the net revenue realized from the tax imposed by
subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act upon
individuals, trusts, and estates during the preceding month;
(ii) 6.85% of the net revenue realized from the tax imposed by
subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act upon
corporations during the preceding month; and (iii) 6.47% of
the net revenue realized from the tax imposed by subsection
(p) of Section 201 of this Act upon electing pass-through
entities. Net revenue realized for a month shall be defined as
the revenue from the tax imposed by subsections (a) and (b) of
Section 201 of this Act which is deposited into the General
Revenue Fund, the Education Assistance Fund, the Income Tax
Surcharge Local Government Distributive Fund, the Fund for the
Advancement of Education, and the Commitment to Human Services
Fund during the month minus the amount paid out of the General
Revenue Fund in State warrants during that same month as
refunds to taxpayers for overpayment of liability under the
tax imposed by subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this
Act.
    Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
beginning on July 6, 2017 (the effective date of Public Act
100-23), those amounts required under this subsection (b) to
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


be transferred by the Treasurer into the Local Government
Distributive Fund from the General Revenue Fund shall be
directly deposited into the Local Government Distributive Fund
as the revenue is realized from the tax imposed by subsections
(a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act.
    (c) Deposits Into Income Tax Refund Fund.
        (1) Beginning on January 1, 1989 and thereafter, the
    Department    shall    deposit   a   percentage   of   the   amounts
    collected pursuant to subsections (a) and (b)(1), (2), and
    (3) of Section 201 of this Act into a fund in the State
    treasury known as the Income Tax Refund Fund. Beginning
    with State fiscal year 1990 and for each fiscal year
    thereafter, the percentage deposited into the Income Tax
    Refund Fund during a fiscal year shall be the Annual
    Percentage. For fiscal year 2011, the Annual Percentage
    shall   be    8.75%.   For   fiscal    year   2012,    the    Annual
    Percentage shall be 8.75%. For fiscal year 2013, the
    Annual Percentage shall be 9.75%. For fiscal year 2014,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 9.5%. For fiscal year 2015,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 10%. For fiscal year 2018,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 9.8%. For fiscal year 2019,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 9.7%. For fiscal year 2020,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 9.5%. For fiscal year 2021,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 9%. For fiscal year 2022,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 9.25%. For fiscal year
    2023, the Annual Percentage shall be 9.25%. For fiscal
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    year 2024, the Annual Percentage shall be                      9.15%. For
    fiscal year 2025, the Annual Percentage shall be 9.15%.
    For fiscal year          2026, the Annual Percentage shall be
    9.15%. For fiscal year 2027, the Annual Percentage shall
    be     9.15%.    For     all    other   fiscal      years,    the    Annual
    Percentage       shall    be    calculated     as    a    fraction,    the
    numerator of which shall be the amount of refunds approved
    for payment by the Department during the preceding fiscal
    year as a result of overpayment of tax liability under
    subsections (a) and (b)(1), (2), and (3) of Section 201 of
    this    Act     plus   the     amount   of   such    refunds    remaining
    approved but unpaid at the end of the preceding fiscal
    year, minus the amounts transferred into the Income Tax
    Refund Fund from the Tobacco Settlement Recovery Fund, and
    the denominator of which shall be the amounts which will
    be collected pursuant to subsections (a) and (b)(1), (2),
    and (3) of Section 201 of this Act during the preceding
    fiscal year; except that in State fiscal year 2002, the
    Annual Percentage shall in no                event exceed 7.6%. The
    Director of Revenue shall certify the Annual Percentage to
    the Comptroller on the last business day of the fiscal
    year immediately preceding the fiscal year for which it is
    to be effective.
         (2) Beginning on January 1, 1989 and thereafter, the
    Department      shall     deposit   a   percentage       of   the   amounts
    collected pursuant to subsections (a) and (b)(6), (7), and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (8), (c) and (d) of Section 201 of this Act into a fund in
    the State treasury known as the Income Tax Refund Fund.
    Beginning with State fiscal year 1990 and for each fiscal
    year thereafter, the percentage deposited into the Income
    Tax Refund Fund during a fiscal year shall be the Annual
    Percentage. For fiscal year 2011, the Annual Percentage
    shall     be     17.5%.   For    fiscal   year   2012,   the    Annual
    Percentage shall be 17.5%. For fiscal year 2013, the
    Annual Percentage shall be 14%. For fiscal year 2014, the
    Annual Percentage shall be 13.4%. For fiscal year 2015,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 14%. For fiscal year 2018,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 17.5%. For fiscal year
    2019, the Annual Percentage shall be 15.5%. For fiscal
    year 2020, the Annual Percentage shall be 14.25%. For
    fiscal year 2021, the Annual Percentage shall be 14%. For
    fiscal year 2022, the Annual Percentage shall be 15%. For
    fiscal year 2023, the Annual Percentage shall be 14.5%.
    For fiscal year 2024, the Annual Percentage shall be 14%.
    For fiscal year 2025, the Annual Percentage shall be 14%.
    For fiscal year 2026, the Annual Percentage shall be 14%.
    For fiscal year 2027, the Annual Percentage shall be 14%.
    For all other fiscal years, the Annual Percentage shall be
    calculated as a fraction, the numerator of which shall be
    the     amount    of   refunds    approved   for   payment     by   the
    Department during the preceding fiscal year as a result of
    overpayment of tax liability under subsections (a) and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (b)(6), (7), and (8), (c) and (d) of Section 201 of this
    Act plus the amount of such refunds remaining approved but
    unpaid at the end of the preceding fiscal year, and the
    denominator of which shall be the amounts which will be
    collected pursuant to subsections (a) and (b)(6), (7), and
    (8), (c) and (d) of Section 201 of this Act during the
    preceding fiscal year; except that in State fiscal year
    2002, the Annual Percentage shall in no event exceed 23%.
    The    Director       of     Revenue     shall       certify      the   Annual
    Percentage to the Comptroller on the last business day of
    the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year for
    which it is to be effective.
          (3) The Comptroller shall order transferred and the
    Treasurer      shall       transfer    from    the     Tobacco     Settlement
    Recovery       Fund    to     the     Income     Tax     Refund     Fund     (i)
    $35,000,000 in January, 2001, (ii) $35,000,000 in January,
    2002, and (iii) $35,000,000 in January, 2003.
    (d) Expenditures from Income Tax Refund Fund.
          (1) Beginning January 1, 1989, money in the Income Tax
    Refund Fund shall be expended exclusively for the purpose
    of    paying    refunds      resulting     from        overpayment      of   tax
    liability under Section 201 of this Act and for making
    transfers pursuant to this subsection (d), except that in
    State fiscal years 2022 and 2023, moneys in the Income Tax
    Refund Fund shall also be used to pay one-time rebate
    payments as provided under Sections 208.5 and 212.1.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


          (2)    The       Director    shall     order       payment      of    refunds
    resulting from overpayment of tax liability under Section
    201 of this Act from the Income Tax Refund Fund only to the
    extent that amounts collected pursuant to Section 201 of
    this Act and transfers pursuant to this subsection (d) and
    item   (3)        of    subsection     (c)     have      been   deposited       and
    retained in the Fund.
          (3) As soon as possible after the end of each fiscal
    year, the Director shall order transferred and the State
    Treasurer and State Comptroller shall transfer from the
    Income      Tax    Refund       Fund   to    the    Personal         Property   Tax
    Replacement Fund an amount, certified by the Director to
    the    Comptroller,         equal      to   the     excess      of    the    amount
    collected pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of Section
    201 of this Act deposited into the Income Tax Refund Fund
    during      the        fiscal   year    over       the   amount       of    refunds
    resulting         from     overpayment        of     tax     liability       under
    subsections (c) and (d) of Section 201 of this Act paid
    from the Income Tax Refund Fund during the fiscal year.
          (4) As soon as possible after the end of each fiscal
    year, the Director shall order transferred and the State
    Treasurer and State Comptroller shall transfer from the
    Personal Property Tax Replacement Fund to the Income Tax
    Refund Fund an amount, certified by the Director to the
    Comptroller, equal to the excess of the amount of refunds
    resulting         from     overpayment        of     tax     liability       under
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    subsections (c) and (d) of Section 201 of this Act paid
    from the Income Tax Refund Fund during the fiscal year
    over the amount collected pursuant to subsections (c) and
    (d) of Section 201 of this Act deposited into the Income
    Tax Refund Fund during the fiscal year.
        (4.5) As soon as possible after the end of fiscal year
    1999 and of each fiscal year thereafter, the Director
    shall order transferred and the State Treasurer and State
    Comptroller shall transfer from the Income Tax Refund Fund
    to the General Revenue Fund any surplus remaining in the
    Income Tax Refund Fund as of the end of such fiscal year;
    excluding for fiscal years 2000, 2001, and 2002 amounts
    attributable to transfers under item (3) of subsection (c)
    less refunds resulting from the earned income tax credit,
    and excluding for fiscal year 2022 amounts attributable to
    transfers from the General Revenue Fund authorized by
    Public Act 102-700. For purposes of                 this item       (4.5),
    "surplus" means the cash balance in the Income Tax Refund
    Fund   at    the   end    of   such   fiscal   year,    less    amounts
    attributable       to    transfers    under    item     (3)    of    this
    subsection (d).
        (5)     This   Act   shall   constitute    an     irrevocable     and
    continuing appropriation from the Income Tax Refund Fund
    for the purposes of (i) paying refunds upon the order of
    the Director in accordance with the provisions of this
    Section and (ii) paying one-time rebate payments under
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Sections 208.5 and 212.1.
    (e) Deposits into the Education Assistance Fund and the
Income Tax Surcharge Local Government Distributive Fund. On
July    1,   1991,   and   thereafter,        of   the     amounts     collected
pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act,
minus deposits into the Income Tax Refund Fund, the Department
shall deposit 7.3% into the Education Assistance Fund in the
State     treasury      Treasury.     Beginning         July   1,    1991,   and
continuing through January 31, 1993, of the amounts collected
pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of the
Illinois Income Tax Act, minus deposits into the Income Tax
Refund Fund, the Department shall deposit 3.0% into the Income
Tax Surcharge Local Government Distributive Fund in the State
treasury Treasury. Beginning February 1, 1993 and continuing
through June 30, 1993, of the amounts collected pursuant to
subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of the Illinois Income
Tax Act, minus deposits into the Income Tax Refund Fund, the
Department shall deposit 4.4% into the Income Tax Surcharge
Local   Government      Distributive     Fund      in    the   State    treasury
Treasury. Beginning July 1, 1993, and continuing through June
30, 1994, of the amounts collected under subsections (a) and
(b) of Section 201 of this Act, minus deposits into the Income
Tax Refund Fund, the Department shall deposit 1.475% into the
Income Tax Surcharge Local Government Distributive Fund in the
State treasury Treasury.
    (f)      Deposits    into   the    Fund    for      the    Advancement    of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Education. Beginning February 1, 2015, the Department shall
deposit the following portions of the revenue realized from
the tax imposed upon individuals, trusts, and estates by
subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act, minus
deposits into the Income Tax Refund Fund, into the Fund for the
Advancement of Education:
        (1) beginning February 1, 2015, and prior to February
    1, 2025, 1/30; and
        (2) beginning February 1, 2025, 1/26.
    If the rate of tax imposed by subsection (a) and (b) of
Section 201 is reduced pursuant to Section 201.5 of this Act,
the Department shall not make the deposits required by this
subsection    (f)   on   or   after    the    effective   date   of    the
reduction.
    (g) Deposits into the Commitment to Human Services Fund.
Beginning February 1, 2015, the Department shall deposit the
following    portions    of   the   revenue   realized    from   the   tax
imposed upon individuals, trusts, and estates by subsections
(a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act, minus deposits into the
Income Tax Refund Fund, into the Commitment to Human Services
Fund:
        (1) beginning February 1, 2015, and prior to February
    1, 2025, 1/30; and
        (2) beginning February 1, 2025, 1/26.
    If the rate of tax imposed by subsection (a) and (b) of
Section 201 is reduced pursuant to Section 201.5 of this Act,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the Department shall not make the deposits required by this
subsection    (g)    on    or    after       the     effective     date   of   the
reduction.
    (h) Deposits into the Tax Compliance and Administration
Fund. Beginning on the first day of the first calendar month to
occur on or after August 26, 2014 (the effective date of Public
Act 98-1098), each month the Department shall pay into the Tax
Compliance and Administration Fund, to be used, subject to
appropriation,      to    fund   additional        auditors      and   compliance
personnel at the Department, an amount equal to 1/12 of 5% of
the cash receipts collected during the preceding fiscal year
by the Audit Bureau of the Department from the tax imposed by
subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) of Section 201 of this Act,
net of deposits into the Income Tax Refund Fund made from those
cash receipts.
(Source:   P.A.     103-8,      eff.   6-7-23;       103-154,      eff.   6-30-23;
103-588,     eff.   6-5-24;      104-2,       eff.     6-16-25;     104-6,     eff.
6-16-25; revised 9-10-25.)


    (35 ILCS 5/917) (from Ch. 120, par. 9-917)
    Sec. 917. Confidentiality and information sharing.
    (a) Confidentiality. Except as provided in this Section,
all information received by the Department from returns filed
under this Act, or from any investigation conducted under the
provisions of this Act, shall be confidential, except for
official     purposes     within       the    Department      or    pursuant    to
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


official        procedures      for    collection         of   any   State     tax    or
pursuant to an investigation or audit by the Illinois State
Scholarship        Commission         of    a    delinquent      student     loan     or
monetary award or enforcement of any civil or criminal penalty
or sanction imposed by this Act or by another statute imposing
a State tax, and any person who divulges any such information
in any manner, except for such purposes and pursuant to order
of the Director or in accordance with a proper judicial order,
shall      be   guilty    of    a     Class      A   misdemeanor.     However,       the
provisions of this paragraph are not applicable to information
furnished to (i) the Department of Healthcare and Family
Services        (formerly      Department            of   Public     Aid),     State's
Attorneys,        and    the    Attorney         General       for   child     support
enforcement purposes and (ii) a licensed attorney representing
the taxpayer where an appeal or a protest has been filed on
behalf of the taxpayer. If it is necessary to file information
obtained pursuant to this Act in a child support enforcement
proceeding, the information shall be filed under seal. The
furnishing upon request of the Auditor General, or his or her
authorized agents, for official use of returns filed and
information related thereto under this Act is deemed to be an
official purpose within the Department within the meaning of
this Section.
     (b) Public information. Nothing contained in this Act
shall prevent the Director from publishing or making available
to   the    public      the    names       and   addresses     of    persons    filing
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


returns under this Act, or from publishing or making available
reasonable statistics concerning the operation of the tax
wherein the contents of returns are grouped into aggregates in
such a way that the information contained in any individual
return shall not be disclosed.
    (c) Governmental agencies.
        (1) The Director may make available to the Secretary
    of the Treasury of the United States or his delegate, or
    the proper officer or his delegate of any other state
    imposing a tax upon or measured by income, for exclusively
    official purposes, information received by the Department
    in the administration of this Act, but such permission
    shall be granted only if the United States or such other
    state,    as     the    case     may     be,     grants      the    Department
    substantially similar privileges.
        (2) The Director may exchange information with the
    Department       of    Healthcare      and     Family    Services     and   the
    Department of Human Services (acting as successor to the
    Department of Public Aid under the Department of Human
    Services Act) for the purpose of verifying sources and
    amounts     of    income       and     for     other    purposes     directly
    connected      with     the    administration           of   this   Act,    the
    Illinois Public Aid Code, and any other health benefit
    program administered by the State.
        (3) The Director may exchange information with the
    Director of the Department of Employment Security for the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    purpose of verifying sources and amounts of income and for
    other purposes directly connected with the administration
    of this Act and Acts administered by the Department of
    Employment Security.
        (4) The Director may make available to the Illinois
    Workers'    Compensation     Commission      information       regarding
    employers    for    the   purpose   of     verifying     the   insurance
    coverage required under the Workers' Compensation Act and
    Workers' Occupational Diseases Act.
        (5) The Director may exchange information with the
    Illinois Department on Aging for the purpose of verifying
    sources    and     amounts   of   income    for   purposes     directly
    related to confirming eligibility for participation in the
    programs of benefits authorized by the Senior Citizens and
    Persons     with    Disabilities     Property      Tax     Relief   and
    Pharmaceutical Assistance Act.
        (6) The Director may exchange information with the
    State Treasurer's Office and the Department of Employment
    Security for the purpose of implementing, administering,
    and enforcing the Illinois Secure Choice Savings Program
    Act.
        (7) The Director may exchange information with the
    State Treasurer's Office for the purpose of administering
    the Revised Uniform Unclaimed Property Act or successor
    Acts.
        (8) The Director may make information available to the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Secretary     of    State    for        the    purpose      of     administering
    Section 5-901 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
        (9) The Director may exchange information with the
    State Treasurer's Office for the purpose of administering
    the Illinois Higher Education Savings Program established
    under Section 16.8 of the State Treasurer Act.
        (10)    The     Director      may     make      individual       income   tax
    information        available       to     the       State    health     benefits
    exchange, as defined in Section 513, if the disclosure is
    authorized by the taxpayer pursuant to Section 513.
        (11) The Director may make information available to
    the Department of Labor for the purpose of administering
    the Equal Pay Act of 2003.
        (12) The Director may make available to any State
    agency,     including       the    Illinois          Supreme       Court,   which
    licenses persons to engage in any occupation, information
    that a person licensed by such agency has failed to file
    returns    under     this    Act    or        pay   the     tax,    penalty   and
    interest shown therein, or has failed to pay any final
    assessment of tax, penalty or interest due under this Act.
        (13) The Director may make available to any State
    agency, including the Illinois Supreme Court, information
    regarding whether a bidder, contractor, or an affiliate of
    a bidder or contractor has failed to file returns under
    this Act or pay the tax, penalty, and interest shown
    therein, or has failed to pay any final assessment of tax,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    penalty, or interest due under this Act, for the limited
    purpose of enforcing bidder and contractor certifications.
    For purposes of this Section, the term "affiliate" means
    any     entity           that     (1)      directly,       indirectly,       or
    constructively controls another entity, (2) is directly,
    indirectly,         or     constructively          controlled     by   another
    entity, or (3) is subject to the control of a common
    entity. For purposes of this subsection (c) (a), an entity
    controls      another           entity     if     it   owns,     directly    or
    individually, more than 10% of the voting securities of
    that entity. As used in this subsection (c) (a), the term
    "voting security" means a security that (1) confers upon
    the holder the right to vote for the election of members of
    the board of directors or similar governing body of the
    business or (2) is convertible into, or                          entitles the
    holder to receive upon its exercise, a security that
    confers      such    a    right       to   vote.   A   general    partnership
    interest is a voting security.
          (14) The Director may make available to any State
    agency, including the Illinois Supreme Court, units of
    local     government,           and     school     districts,     information
    regarding whether a bidder or contractor is an affiliate
    of a person who is not collecting and remitting Illinois
    Use taxes, for the limited purpose of enforcing bidder and
    contractor certifications.
          (15)   The Director may              also    make   available to      the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Secretary of State information that a corporation which
    has been issued a certificate of incorporation by the
    Secretary of State has failed to file returns under this
    Act or pay the tax, penalty and interest shown therein, or
    has failed to pay any final assessment of tax, penalty or
    interest due under this Act. An assessment is final when
    all proceedings in court for review of such assessment
    have terminated or the time for the taking thereof has
    expired without such proceedings being instituted. For
    taxable years ending on or after December 31, 1987, the
    Director may make available to the Director or principal
    officer       of       any    Department       of    the    State    of     Illinois,
    information that a person employed by such Department has
    failed to file returns under this Act or pay the tax,
    penalty and interest shown therein. For purposes of this
    paragraph,         the       word     "Department"         shall    have    the    same
    meaning as provided in Section 3 of the State Employees
    Group Insurance Act of 1971.
    (d)     The    Director              shall    make    available        for     public
inspection    in       the       Department's       principal          office    and   for
publication, at cost, administrative decisions issued on or
after   January        1,        1995.    These    decisions       are    to     be    made
available     in       a    manner        so     that    the     following       taxpayer
information is not disclosed:
          (1) The names, addresses, and identification numbers
    of the taxpayer, related entities, and employees.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


           (2) At the sole discretion of the Director, trade
     secrets or other confidential information identified as
     such by the taxpayer, no later than 30 days after receipt
     of    an   administrative     decision,     by   such   means   as   the
     Department shall provide by rule.
     The Director shall determine the appropriate extent of the
deletions allowed in paragraph (2). In the event the taxpayer
does not submit deletions, the Director shall make only the
deletions specified in paragraph (1).
     The Director shall make available for public inspection
and publication an administrative decision within 180 days
after the issuance of the administrative decision. The term
"administrative decision" has the same meaning as defined in
Section 3-101 of Article III of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Costs collected under this Section shall be paid into the Tax
Compliance and Administration Fund.
     (e)    Nothing    contained    in   this   Act   shall   prevent     the
Director from divulging information to any person pursuant to
a   request     or   authorization   made   by    the   taxpayer,    by    an
authorized representative of the taxpayer, or, in the case of
information related to a joint return, by the spouse filing
the joint return with the taxpayer.
(Source: P.A. 102-61, eff. 7-9-21; 102-129, eff. 7-23-21;
102-799, eff. 5-13-22; 102-813, eff. 5-13-22; 102-941, eff.
7-1-22; 103-154, eff. 6-30-23.)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      (35 ILCS 5/507DD rep.)
      Section 5-50. The Illinois Income Tax Act is amended by
repealing Section 507DD.


      Section 5-55. The Use Tax Act is amended by changing
Section 9 as follows:


      (35 ILCS 105/9)
      (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-457)
      Sec. 9. Except as to motor vehicles, watercraft, aircraft,
and trailers that are required to be registered with an agency
of this State, each retailer required or authorized to collect
the tax imposed by this Act shall pay to the Department the
amount of such tax (except as otherwise provided) at the time
when he is required to file his return for the period during
which such tax was collected, less a discount of 2.1% prior to
January 1, 1990, and 1.75% on and after January 1, 1990, or $5
per calendar year, whichever is greater, which is allowed to
reimburse the retailer for expenses incurred in collecting the
tax, keeping records, preparing and filing returns, remitting
the tax and supplying data to the Department on request.
Beginning with returns due on or after January 1, 2025, the
discount allowed in this Section, the Retailers' Occupation
Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Service Use
Tax    Act,   including   any   local   tax     administered   by   the
Department and reported on the same return, shall not exceed
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


$1,000 per month in the aggregate for returns other than
transaction returns filed during the month. When determining
the   discount   allowed   under   this   Section,   retailers   shall
include the amount of tax that would have been due at the 6.25%
rate but for the 1.25% rate imposed on sales tax holiday items
under Public Act 102-700. The discount under this Section is
not allowed for the 1.25% portion of taxes paid on aviation
fuel that is subject to the revenue use requirements of 49
U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133. When determining the
discount allowed under this Section, retailers shall include
the amount of tax that would have been due at the 1% rate but
for the 0% rate imposed under Public Act 102-700. In the case
of retailers who report and pay the tax on a transaction by
transaction basis, as provided in this Section, such discount
shall be taken with each such tax remittance instead of when
such retailer files his periodic return, but, beginning with
returns due on or after January 1, 2025, the discount allowed
under this Section and the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act,
including any local tax administered by the Department and
reported on the same transaction return, shall not exceed
$1,000 per month for all transaction returns filed during the
month. The discount allowed under this Section is allowed only
for returns that are filed in the manner required by this Act.
The Department may disallow the discount for retailers whose
certificate of registration is revoked at the time the return
is filed, but only if the Department's decision to revoke the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


certificate of registration has become final. A retailer need
not remit that part of any tax collected by him to the extent
that he is required to remit and does remit the tax imposed by
the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, with respect to the sale of
the same property.
    Where such tangible personal property is sold under a
conditional sales contract, or under any other form of sale
wherein the payment of the principal sum, or a part thereof, is
extended beyond the close of the period for which the return is
filed, the retailer, in collecting the tax (except as to motor
vehicles, watercraft, aircraft, and trailers that are required
to be registered with an agency of this State), may collect for
each tax return period only the tax applicable to that part of
the selling price actually received during such tax return
period.
    In the case of leases, except as otherwise provided in
this Act, the lessor, in collecting the tax, may collect for
each tax return period only the tax applicable to that part of
the selling price actually received during such tax return
period.
    Except as provided in this Section, on or before the
twentieth day of each calendar month, such retailer shall file
a return for the preceding calendar month. Such return shall
be filed on forms prescribed by the Department and shall
furnish such information as the Department may reasonably
require. The return shall include the gross receipts on food
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


for human consumption that is to be consumed off the premises
where   it      is   sold    (other    than    alcoholic    beverages,     food
consisting of or infused with adult use cannabis, soft drinks,
and food that has been prepared for immediate consumption)
which   were     received     during    the    preceding    calendar    month,
quarter, or year, as appropriate, and upon which tax would
have been due but for the 0% rate imposed under Public Act
102-700. The return shall also include the amount of tax that
would have been due on food for human consumption that is to be
consumed     off     the    premises   where     it   is   sold   (other   than
alcoholic beverages, food consisting of or infused with adult
use cannabis, soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) but for the 0% rate imposed under
Public Act 102-700.
    On and after January 1, 2018, except for returns required
to be filed prior to January 1, 2023 for motor vehicles,
watercraft, aircraft, and trailers that are required to be
registered with an agency of this State, with respect to
retailers whose annual gross receipts average $20,000 or more,
all returns required to be filed pursuant to this Act shall be
filed electronically. On and after January 1, 2023, with
respect    to    retailers     whose    annual    gross    receipts    average
$20,000 or more, all returns required to be filed pursuant to
this Act, including, but not limited to, returns for motor
vehicles, watercraft, aircraft, and trailers that are required
to be registered with an agency of this State, shall be filed
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


electronically. Retailers who demonstrate that they do not
have access to the Internet or demonstrate hardship in filing
electronically    may   petition   the    Department     to    waive    the
electronic filing requirement.
    The    Department   may   require    returns   to   be    filed    on   a
quarterly basis. If so required, a return for each calendar
quarter shall be filed on or before the twentieth day of the
calendar month following the end of such calendar quarter. The
taxpayer shall also file a return with the Department for each
of the first 2 two months of each calendar quarter, on or
before the twentieth day of the following calendar month,
stating:
          1. The name of the seller;
          2. The address of the principal place of business from
    which he engages in        the business of selling           tangible
    personal property at retail in this State;
          3. The total amount of taxable receipts received by
    him during the preceding calendar month from sales of
    tangible personal property by him during such preceding
    calendar month, including receipts from charge and time
    sales, but less all deductions allowed by law;
          4. The amount of credit provided in Section 2d of this
    Act;
          5. The amount of tax due;
          5-5. The signature of the taxpayer; and
          6. Such other reasonable information as the Department
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      may require.
      Each retailer required or authorized to collect the tax
imposed by this Act on aviation fuel sold at retail in this
State during the preceding calendar month shall, instead of
reporting    and     paying     tax   on   aviation      fuel    as    otherwise
required by this Section, report and pay such tax on a separate
aviation fuel tax return. The requirements related to the
return    shall    be    as    otherwise    provided      in    this    Section.
Notwithstanding         any   other   provisions    of    this    Act    to   the
contrary, retailers collecting tax on aviation fuel shall file
all aviation fuel tax returns and shall make all aviation fuel
tax   payments     by    electronic    means   in   the    manner      and    form
required by the Department. For purposes of this Section,
"aviation fuel" means jet fuel and aviation gasoline.
      If a taxpayer fails to sign a return within 30 days after
the proper notice and demand for signature by the Department,
the return shall be considered valid and any amount shown to be
due on the return shall be deemed assessed.
      Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act to the
contrary, retailers subject to tax on cannabis shall file all
cannabis tax returns and shall make all cannabis tax payments
by electronic means in the manner and form required by the
Department.
      Beginning October 1, 1993, a taxpayer who has an average
monthly tax liability of $150,000 or more shall make all
payments required by rules of the Department by electronic
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


funds transfer. Beginning October 1, 1994, a taxpayer who has
an average monthly tax liability of $100,000 or more shall
make all payments required by rules of the Department by
electronic     funds    transfer.     Beginning     October    1,    1995,    a
taxpayer who has an average monthly tax liability of $50,000
or more shall make all payments required by rules of the
Department by electronic funds transfer. Beginning October 1,
2000, a taxpayer who has an annual tax liability of $200,000 or
more   shall    make    all    payments     required   by    rules    of    the
Department by electronic funds transfer. The term "annual tax
liability" shall be the sum of the taxpayer's liabilities
under this Act, and under all other State and local occupation
and use tax laws administered by the Department, for the
immediately preceding calendar year. The term "average monthly
tax liability" means the sum of the taxpayer's liabilities
under this Act, and under all other State and local occupation
and use tax laws administered by the Department, for the
immediately preceding calendar year divided by 12. Beginning
on October 1, 2002, a taxpayer who has a tax liability in the
amount set forth in subsection (b) of Section 2505-210 of the
Department of Revenue Law shall make all payments required by
rules of the Department by electronic funds transfer.
    Before     August   1     of   each   year   beginning    in    1993,   the
Department     shall    notify      all   taxpayers    required      to     make
payments by electronic funds transfer. All taxpayers required
to make payments by electronic funds transfer shall make those
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


payments for a minimum of one year beginning on October 1.
    Any taxpayer not required to make payments by electronic
funds transfer may make payments by electronic funds transfer
with the permission of the Department.
    All taxpayers required to make payment by electronic funds
transfer and any taxpayers authorized to voluntarily make
payments     by    electronic     funds   transfer    shall    make   those
payments in the manner authorized by the Department.
    The Department shall adopt such rules as are necessary to
effectuate a program of electronic funds transfer and the
requirements of this Section.
    Before October 1, 2000, if the taxpayer's average monthly
tax liability to the Department under this Act, the Retailers'
Occupation    Tax    Act,   the    Service    Occupation    Tax   Act,    the
Service Use Tax Act was $10,000 or more during the preceding 4
complete calendar quarters, he shall file a return with the
Department each month by the 20th day of the month next
following    the    month   during    which    such   tax     liability    is
incurred and shall make payments to the Department on or
before the 7th, 15th, 22nd and last day of the month during
which such liability is incurred. On and after October 1,
2000, if the taxpayer's average monthly tax liability to the
Department under this Act, the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act,
the Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Service Use Tax Act was
$20,000 or more during the preceding 4 complete calendar
quarters, he shall file a return with the Department each
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


month by the 20th day of the month next following the month
during which such tax liability is incurred and shall make
payment to the Department on or before the 7th, 15th, 22nd and
last day of the month during which such liability is incurred.
If the month during which such tax liability is incurred began
prior to January 1, 1985, each payment shall be in an amount
equal to 1/4 of the taxpayer's actual liability for the month
or an amount set by the Department not to exceed 1/4 of the
average monthly liability of the taxpayer to the Department
for the preceding 4 complete calendar quarters (excluding the
month of highest liability and the month of lowest liability
in such 4 quarter period). If the month during which such tax
liability is incurred begins on or after January 1, 1985, and
prior to January 1, 1987, each payment shall be in an amount
equal to 22.5% of the taxpayer's actual liability for the
month   or   27.5%   of   the   taxpayer's   liability     for   the    same
calendar month of the preceding year. If the month during
which   such   tax   liability    is   incurred   begins   on    or    after
January 1, 1987, and prior to January 1, 1988, each payment
shall be in an amount equal to 22.5% of the taxpayer's actual
liability for the month or 26.25% of the taxpayer's liability
for the same calendar month of the preceding year. If the month
during which such tax liability is incurred begins on or after
January 1, 1988, and prior to January 1, 1989, or begins on or
after January 1, 1996, each payment shall be in an amount equal
to 22.5% of the taxpayer's actual liability for the month or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


25% of the taxpayer's liability for the same calendar month of
the   preceding    year.   If    the    month   during   which    such   tax
liability is incurred begins on or after January 1, 1989, and
prior to January 1, 1996, each payment shall be in an amount
equal to 22.5% of the taxpayer's actual liability for the
month or 25% of the taxpayer's liability for the same calendar
month of the preceding year or 100% of the taxpayer's actual
liability for the quarter monthly reporting period. The amount
of such quarter monthly payments shall be credited against the
final tax liability of the taxpayer's return for that month.
Before October 1, 2000, once applicable, the requirement of
the making of quarter monthly payments to the Department shall
continue until such taxpayer's average monthly liability to
the   Department    during      the    preceding   4   complete   calendar
quarters (excluding the month of highest liability and the
month of lowest liability) is less than $9,000, or until such
taxpayer's average monthly liability to the Department as
computed for each calendar quarter of the 4 preceding complete
calendar quarter period is less than $10,000. However, if a
taxpayer can show the Department that a substantial change in
the taxpayer's business has occurred which causes the taxpayer
to anticipate that his average monthly tax liability for the
reasonably foreseeable future will fall below the $10,000
threshold stated above, then such taxpayer may petition the
Department for change in such taxpayer's reporting status. On
and after October 1, 2000, once applicable, the requirement of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the making of quarter monthly payments to the Department shall
continue until such taxpayer's average monthly liability to
the    Department   during    the   preceding   4   complete     calendar
quarters (excluding the month of highest liability and the
month of lowest liability) is less than $19,000 or until such
taxpayer's average monthly liability to the Department as
computed for each calendar quarter of the 4 preceding complete
calendar quarter period is less than $20,000. However, if a
taxpayer can show the Department that a substantial change in
the taxpayer's business has occurred which causes the taxpayer
to anticipate that his average monthly tax liability for the
reasonably foreseeable future will fall below the $20,000
threshold stated above, then such taxpayer may petition the
Department for a change in such taxpayer's reporting status.
The Department shall change such taxpayer's reporting status
unless it finds that such change is seasonal in nature and not
likely to be long term. Quarter monthly payment status shall
be determined under this paragraph as if the rate reduction to
1.25% in Public Act 102-700 on sales tax holiday items had not
occurred. For quarter monthly payments due on or after July 1,
2023   and   through   June   30,   2024,   "25%    of   the   taxpayer's
liability for the same calendar month of the preceding year"
shall be determined as if the rate reduction to 1.25% in Public
Act 102-700 on sales tax holiday items had not occurred.
Quarter monthly payment status shall be determined under this
paragraph as if the rate reduction to 0% in Public Act 102-700
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


on food for human consumption that is to be consumed off the
premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages,
food consisting of or infused with adult use cannabis, soft
drinks,   and   food   that   has   been   prepared   for   immediate
consumption) had not occurred. For quarter monthly payments
due under this paragraph on or after July 1, 2023 and through
June 30, 2024, "25% of the taxpayer's liability for the same
calendar month of the preceding year" shall be determined as
if the rate reduction to 0% in Public Act 102-700 had not
occurred. If any such quarter monthly payment is not paid at
the time or in the amount required by this Section, then the
taxpayer shall be liable for penalties and interest on the
difference between the minimum amount due and the amount of
such quarter monthly payment actually and timely paid, except
insofar as the taxpayer has previously made payments for that
month to the Department in excess of the minimum payments
previously due as provided in this Section. The Department
shall make reasonable rules and regulations to govern the
quarter monthly payment amount and quarter monthly payment
dates for taxpayers who file on other than a calendar monthly
basis.
    If any such payment provided for in this Section exceeds
the taxpayer's liabilities under this Act, the Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act and the
Service Use Tax Act, as shown by an original monthly return,
the Department shall issue to the taxpayer a credit memorandum
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


no    later   than    30   days     after   the   date    of   payment,   which
memorandum may be submitted by the taxpayer to the Department
in payment of tax liability subsequently to be remitted by the
taxpayer to the Department or be assigned by the taxpayer to a
similar taxpayer under this Act, the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act or the Service Use Tax Act,
in accordance with reasonable rules and regulations to be
prescribed by the Department, except that if such excess
payment is shown on an original monthly return and is made
after December 31, 1986, no credit memorandum shall be issued,
unless requested by the taxpayer. If no such request is made,
the    taxpayer      may   credit    such   excess    payment     against   tax
liability subsequently to be remitted by the taxpayer to the
Department under this Act, the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act,
the Service Occupation Tax Act or the Service Use Tax Act, in
accordance with reasonable rules and regulations prescribed by
the Department. If the Department subsequently determines that
all or any part of the credit taken was not actually due to the
taxpayer, the taxpayer's vendor's discount shall be reduced,
if necessary, to reflect the difference between the credit
taken and that actually due, and the taxpayer shall be liable
for penalties and interest on such difference.
      If the retailer is otherwise required to file a monthly
return and if the retailer's average monthly tax liability to
the    Department     does    not    exceed   $200,      the   Department   may
authorize his returns to be filed on a quarter annual basis,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


with the return for January, February, and March of a given
year being due by April 20 of such year; with the return for
April, May and June of a given year being due by July 20 of
such year; with the return for July, August and September of a
given year being due by October 20 of such year, and with the
return for October, November and December of a given year
being due by January 20 of the following year.
    If the retailer is otherwise required to file a monthly or
quarterly return and if the retailer's average monthly tax
liability    to   the    Department     does      not     exceed   $50,   the
Department may authorize his returns to be filed on an annual
basis, with the return for a given year being due by January 20
of the following year.
    Such quarter annual and annual returns, as to form and
substance,   shall      be   subject   to   the    same    requirements    as
monthly returns.
    Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act concerning
the time within which a retailer may file his return, in the
case of any retailer who ceases to engage in a kind of business
which makes him responsible for filing returns under this Act,
such retailer shall file a final return under this Act with the
Department not more than one month after discontinuing such
business.
    In addition, with respect to motor vehicles, watercraft,
aircraft, and trailers that are required to be registered with
an agency of this State, except as otherwise provided in this
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Section, every retailer selling this kind of tangible personal
property shall file, with the Department, upon a form to be
prescribed and supplied by the Department, a separate return
for each such item of tangible personal property which the
retailer sells, except that if, in the same transaction, (i) a
retailer of aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicles or trailers
transfers more than one aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicle or
trailer to another aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicle or
trailer retailer for the purpose of resale or (ii) a retailer
of aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicles, or trailers transfers
more than one aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicle, or trailer
to a purchaser for use as a qualifying rolling stock as
provided in Section 3-55 of this Act, then that seller may
report the transfer of all the aircraft, watercraft, motor
vehicles or trailers involved in that transaction to the
Department on the same uniform invoice-transaction reporting
return form. For purposes of this Section, "watercraft" means
a Class 2, Class 3, or Class 4 watercraft as defined in Section
3-2   of   the    Boat    Registration      and    Safety      Act,   a   personal
watercraft, or any boat equipped with an inboard motor.
      In addition, with respect to motor vehicles, watercraft,
aircraft, and trailers that are required to be registered with
an agency of this State, every person who is engaged in the
business    of     leasing      or   renting      such    items   and     who,    in
connection       with    such   business,      sells     any   such   item   to   a
retailer for the purpose of resale is, notwithstanding any
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


other provision of this Section to the contrary, authorized to
meet the return-filing requirement of this Act by reporting
the transfer of all the aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicles,
or trailers transferred for resale during a month to the
Department on the same uniform invoice-transaction reporting
return form on or before the 20th of the month following the
month in which the transfer takes place. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Act to the contrary, all returns filed
under this paragraph must be filed by electronic means in the
manner and form as required by the Department.
    The transaction reporting return in the case of motor
vehicles or trailers that are required to be registered with
an agency of this State, shall be the same document as the
Uniform Invoice referred to in Section 5-402 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code and must show the name and address of the seller;
the name and address of the purchaser; the amount of the
selling price including the amount allowed by the retailer for
traded-in property, if any; the amount allowed by the retailer
for the traded-in tangible personal property, if any, to the
extent to which Section 2 of this Act allows an exemption for
the value of traded-in property; the balance payable after
deducting   such   trade-in    allowance    from    the   total   selling
price; the amount of tax due from the retailer with respect to
such   transaction;   the     amount   of   tax    collected   from   the
purchaser by the retailer on such transaction (or satisfactory
evidence that such tax is not due in that particular instance,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


if that is claimed to be the fact); the place and date of the
sale; a sufficient identification of the property sold; such
other information as is required in Section 5-402 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, and such other information as the
Department may reasonably require.
    The transaction reporting return in the case of watercraft
and aircraft must show the name and address of the seller; the
name and address of the purchaser; the amount of the selling
price    including    the   amount    allowed         by   the    retailer     for
traded-in property, if any; the amount allowed by the retailer
for the traded-in tangible personal property, if any, to the
extent to which Section 2 of this Act allows an exemption for
the value of traded-in property; the balance payable after
deducting   such     trade-in    allowance      from       the    total   selling
price; the amount of tax due from the retailer with respect to
such    transaction;    the     amount     of   tax    collected        from   the
purchaser by the retailer on such transaction (or satisfactory
evidence that such tax is not due in that particular instance,
if that is claimed to be the fact); the place and date of the
sale, a sufficient identification of the property sold, and
such    other   information     as   the    Department           may   reasonably
require.
    Such transaction reporting return shall be filed not later
than 20 days after the date of delivery of the item that is
being sold, but may be filed by the retailer at any time sooner
than that if he chooses to do so. The transaction reporting
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


return and tax remittance or proof of exemption from the tax
that   is   imposed     by   this   Act    may   be   transmitted       to   the
Department by way of the State agency with which, or State
officer with whom, the tangible personal property must be
titled or registered (if titling or registration is required)
if the Department and such agency or State officer determine
that   this      procedure     will   expedite        the     processing      of
applications for title or registration.
    With each such transaction reporting return, the retailer
shall remit the proper amount of tax due (or shall submit
satisfactory evidence that the sale is not taxable if that is
the case), to the Department or its agents, whereupon the
Department shall issue, in the purchaser's name, a tax receipt
(or a certificate of exemption if the Department is satisfied
that the particular sale is tax exempt) which such purchaser
may submit to the agency with which, or State officer with
whom, he must title or register the tangible personal property
that is involved (if titling or registration is required) in
support     of   such   purchaser's       application       for   an   Illinois
certificate or other evidence of title or registration to such
tangible personal property.
    No retailer's failure or refusal to remit tax under this
Act precludes a user, who has paid the proper tax to the
retailer, from obtaining his certificate of title or other
evidence of title or registration (if titling or registration
is required) upon satisfying the Department that such user has
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


paid the proper tax (if tax is due) to the retailer. The
Department shall adopt appropriate rules to carry out the
mandate of this paragraph.
      If the user who would otherwise pay tax to the retailer
wants the transaction reporting return filed and the payment
of tax or proof of exemption made to the Department before the
retailer is willing to take these actions and such user has not
paid the tax to the retailer, such user may certify to the fact
of such delay by the retailer, and may (upon the Department
being satisfied of the truth of such certification) transmit
the information required by the transaction reporting return
and the remittance for tax or proof of exemption directly to
the    Department   and   obtain   his    tax    receipt   or    exemption
determination, in which event the transaction reporting return
and tax remittance (if a tax payment was required) shall be
credited by the Department to the proper retailer's account
with    the   Department,   but    without      the   vendor's    discount
provided for in this Section being allowed. When the user pays
the tax directly to the Department, he shall pay the tax in the
same amount and in the same form in which it would be remitted
if the tax had been remitted to the Department by the retailer.
      On and after January 1, 2025, with respect to the lease of
trailers, other than semitrailers as defined in Section 1-187
of    the   Illinois   Vehicle    Code,   that    are   required    to   be
registered with an agency of this State and that are subject to
the tax on lease receipts under this Act, notwithstanding any
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


other provision of this Act to the contrary, for the purpose of
reporting   and    paying   tax    under    this     Act    on    those    lease
receipts,   lessors    shall      file    returns    in    addition       to   and
separate from the transaction reporting return. Lessors shall
file those lease returns and make payment to the Department by
electronic means on or before the 20th day of each month
following the month, quarter, or year, as applicable, in which
lease receipts were received. All lease receipts received by
the lessor from the lease of those trailers during the same
reporting period shall be reported and tax shall be paid on a
single return form to be prescribed by the Department.
      Where a retailer collects the tax with respect to the
selling price of tangible personal property which he sells and
the    purchaser    thereafter     returns     such       tangible      personal
property and the retailer refunds the selling price thereof to
the   purchaser,    such    retailer      shall     also    refund,      to    the
purchaser, the tax so collected from the purchaser. When
filing his return for the period in which he refunds such tax
to the purchaser, the retailer may deduct the amount of the tax
so refunded by him to the purchaser from any other use tax
which such retailer may be required to pay or remit to the
Department, as shown by such return, if the amount of the tax
to be deducted was previously remitted to the Department by
such retailer. If the retailer has not previously remitted the
amount of such tax to the Department, he is entitled to no
deduction   under    this   Act    upon    refunding       such   tax     to   the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


purchaser.
    Any retailer filing a return under this Section shall also
include (for the purpose of paying tax thereon) the total tax
covered by such return upon the selling price of tangible
personal property purchased by him at retail from a retailer,
but as to which the tax imposed by this Act was not collected
from the retailer filing such return, and such retailer shall
remit the amount of such tax to the Department when filing such
return.
    If experience indicates such action to be practicable, the
Department may prescribe and furnish a combination or joint
return which will enable retailers, who are required to file
returns hereunder and also under the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act, to furnish all the return information required by both
Acts on the one form.
    Where the retailer has more than one business registered
with the Department under separate registration under this
Act, such retailer may not file each return that is due as a
single return covering all such registered businesses, but
shall file separate returns for each such registered business.
    Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund, a special
fund in the State treasury which is hereby created, the net
revenue realized for the preceding month from the 1% tax
imposed under this Act.
    Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


pay into the County and Mass Transit District Fund 4% of the
net revenue realized for the preceding month from the 6.25%
general    rate     on   the   selling    price    of   tangible     personal
property which is purchased outside Illinois at retail from a
retailer and which is titled or registered by an agency of this
State's government.
      Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund, a special
fund in the State treasury, 20% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate on the selling
price of tangible personal property, other than (i) tangible
personal   property       which   is   purchased    outside    Illinois      at
retail from a retailer and which is titled or registered by an
agency of this State's government and (ii) aviation fuel sold
on or after December 1, 2019. This exception for aviation fuel
only applies for so long as the revenue use requirements of 49
U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133 are binding on the State.
      For aviation fuel sold on or after December 1, 2019, each
month the Department shall pay into the State Aviation Program
Fund 20% of the net revenue realized for the preceding month
from the 6.25% general rate on the selling price of aviation
fuel,   less   an     amount    estimated   by    the   Department     to    be
required for refunds of the 20% portion of the tax on aviation
fuel under this Act, which amount shall be deposited into the
Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund. The Department shall only
pay   moneys   into      the   State   Aviation    Program    Fund   and    the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Aviation Fuel Fuels Sales Tax Refund Fund under this Act for so
long as the revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and
49 U.S.C. 47133 are binding on the State.
     Beginning August 1, 2000, each month the Department shall
pay into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund 100% of the
net revenue realized for the preceding month from the 1.25%
rate on the selling price of motor fuel and gasohol. If, in any
month, the tax on sales tax holiday items, as defined in
Section   3-6,     is   imposed      at    the   rate   of    1.25%,     then   the
Department shall pay 100% of the net revenue realized for that
month from the 1.25% rate on the selling price of sales tax
holiday items into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund.
     Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the Local Government Tax Fund 16% of the net revenue
realized for the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate
on the selling price of tangible personal property which is
purchased outside Illinois at retail from a retailer and which
is   titled   or     registered       by    an   agency      of   this    State's
government.
     Beginning October 1, 2009 and through June 30, 2026, each
month the Department shall pay into the Capital Projects Fund
an   amount   that      is   equal    to    an   amount      estimated    by    the
Department to represent 80% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the sale of candy, grooming and
hygiene products, and soft drinks that had been taxed at a rate
of 1% prior to September 1, 2009, but that are now taxed at
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


6.25%.
      Beginning July 1, 2011, each month the Department shall
pay into the Clean Air Act Permit Fund 80% of the net revenue
realized for the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate
on the selling price of sorbents used in Illinois in the
process   of     sorbent   injection    as   used   to   comply    with   the
Environmental Protection Act or the federal Clean Air Act, but
the total payment into the Clean Air Act Permit Fund under this
Act and the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act shall not exceed
$2,000,000 in any fiscal year.
      Beginning July 1, 2013, each month the Department shall
pay into the Underground Storage Tank Fund from the proceeds
collected under this Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the Service
Occupation Tax Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act an
amount equal to the average monthly deficit in the Underground
Storage Tank Fund during the prior year, as certified annually
by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, but the total
payment into the Underground Storage Tank Fund under this Act,
the Service Use Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, and
the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act shall not exceed $18,000,000
in any State fiscal year. As used in this paragraph, the
"average monthly deficit" shall be equal to the difference
between the average monthly claims for payment by the fund and
the    average    monthly    revenues    deposited       into     the   fund,
excluding payments made pursuant to this paragraph.
      Beginning July 1, 2015, of the remainder of the moneys
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


received by the Department under this Act, the Service Use Tax
Act,    the    Service      Occupation   Tax   Act,    and     the    Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act, each month the Department shall deposit
$500,000 into the State Crime Laboratory Fund.
      Of the remainder of the moneys received by the Department
pursuant to this Act, (a) 1.75% thereof shall be paid into the
Build Illinois Fund and (b) prior to July 1, 1989, 2.2% and on
and after July 1, 1989, 3.8% thereof shall be paid into the
Build Illinois Fund; provided, however, that if in any fiscal
year the sum of (1) the aggregate of 2.2% or 3.8%, as the case
may be, of the moneys received by the Department and required
to be paid into the Build Illinois Fund pursuant to Section 3
of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, Section 9 of the Use Tax
Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, and Section 9 of the
Service Occupation Tax Act, such Acts being hereinafter called
the "Tax Acts" and such aggregate of 2.2% or 3.8%, as the case
may    be,    of   moneys    being   hereinafter      called    the    "Tax   Act
Amount", and (2) the amount transferred to the Build Illinois
Fund from the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund shall be
less than the Annual Specified Amount (as defined in Section 3
of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act), an amount equal to the
difference shall be immediately paid into the Build Illinois
Fund from other moneys received by the Department pursuant to
the Tax Acts; and further provided, that if on the last
business day of any month the sum of (1) the Tax Act Amount
required to be deposited into the Build Illinois Bond Account
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


in the Build Illinois Fund during such month and (2) the amount
transferred during such month to the Build Illinois Fund from
the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund shall have been less
than 1/12 of the Annual Specified Amount, an amount equal to
the   difference   shall     be   immediately       paid    into   the   Build
Illinois Fund from other moneys received by the Department
pursuant to the Tax Acts; and, further provided, that in no
event shall the payments required under the preceding proviso
result in aggregate payments into the Build Illinois Fund
pursuant to this clause (b) for any fiscal year in excess of
the greater of (i) the Tax Act Amount or (ii) the Annual
Specified Amount for such fiscal year; and, further provided,
that the amounts payable into the Build Illinois Fund under
this clause (b) shall be payable only until such time as the
aggregate    amount     on   deposit      under    each    trust   indenture
securing Bonds issued and outstanding pursuant to the Build
Illinois Bond Act is sufficient, taking into account any
future investment income, to fully provide, in accordance with
such indenture, for the defeasance of or the payment of the
principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds
secured by such indenture and on any Bonds expected to be
issued thereafter and all fees and costs payable with respect
thereto, all as certified by the Director of the Bureau of the
Budget (now Governor's Office of Management and Budget). If on
the   last   business    day   of   any    month    in     which   Bonds   are
outstanding pursuant to the Build Illinois Bond Act, the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


aggregate of the moneys deposited into in the Build Illinois
Bond Account in the Build Illinois Fund in such month shall be
less than the amount required to be transferred in such month
from the Build Illinois Bond Account to the Build Illinois
Bond Retirement and Interest Fund pursuant to Section 13 of
the    Build   Illinois     Bond    Act,   an     amount       equal     to    such
deficiency     shall   be    immediately        paid    from     other        moneys
received by the Department pursuant to the Tax Acts to the
Build Illinois Fund; provided, however, that any amounts paid
to the Build Illinois Fund in any fiscal year pursuant to this
sentence shall be deemed to constitute payments pursuant to
clause (b) of the preceding sentence and shall reduce the
amount otherwise payable for such fiscal year pursuant to
clause (b) of the preceding sentence. The moneys received by
the   Department   pursuant        to   this   Act     and   required         to   be
deposited into the Build Illinois Fund are subject to the
pledge, claim and charge set forth in Section 12 of the Build
Illinois Bond Act.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois Fund
as provided in the preceding paragraph or in any amendment
thereto hereafter enacted, the following specified monthly
installment of the amount requested in the certificate of the
Chairman of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
provided under Section 8.25f of the State Finance Act, but not
in excess of the sums designated as "Total Deposit", shall be
deposited in the aggregate from collections under Section 9 of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, Section
9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, and Section 3 of the
Retailers'   Occupation    Tax   Act   into   the   McCormick   Place
Expansion Project Fund in the specified fiscal years.
             Fiscal Year                               Total Deposit
                  1993                                            $0
                  1994                                   53,000,000
                  1995                                   58,000,000
                  1996                                   61,000,000
                  1997                                   64,000,000
                  1998                                   68,000,000
                  1999                                   71,000,000
                  2000                                   75,000,000
                  2001                                   80,000,000
                  2002                                   93,000,000
                  2003                                   99,000,000
                  2004                                  103,000,000
                  2005                                  108,000,000
                  2006                                  113,000,000
                  2007                                  119,000,000
                  2008                                  126,000,000
                  2009                                  132,000,000
                  2010                                  139,000,000
                  2011                                  146,000,000
                  2012                                  153,000,000
                  2013                                  161,000,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


                  2014                     170,000,000
                  2015                     179,000,000
                  2016                     189,000,000
                  2017                     199,000,000
                  2018                     210,000,000
                  2019                     221,000,000
                  2020                     233,000,000
                  2021                     300,000,000
                  2022                     300,000,000
                  2023                     300,000,000
                  2024                     300,000,000
                  2025                     300,000,000
                  2026                     300,000,000
                  2027                     375,000,000
                  2028                     375,000,000
                  2029                     375,000,000
                  2030                     375,000,000
                  2031                     375,000,000
                  2032                     375,000,000
                  2033                     375,000,000
                  2034                     375,000,000
                  2035                     375,000,000
                  2036                     450,000,000
                  and
          each fiscal year
       thereafter that bonds
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


           are outstanding under
            Section 13.2 of the
           Metropolitan Pier and
       Exposition Authority Act,
  but not after fiscal year 2060.
      Beginning July 20, 1993 and in each month of each fiscal
year thereafter, one-eighth of the amount requested in the
certificate of the Chairman of the Metropolitan Pier and
Exposition Authority for that fiscal year, less the amount
deposited into the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund by
the State Treasurer in the respective month under subsection
(g) of Section 13 of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition
Authority Act, plus cumulative deficiencies in the deposits
required under this Section for previous months and years,
shall be deposited into the McCormick Place Expansion Project
Fund, until the full amount requested for the fiscal year, but
not   in    excess   of   the   amount   specified   above   as   "Total
Deposit", has been deposited.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Capital Projects
Fund, the Clean Air Act Permit Fund, the Build Illinois Fund,
and the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund pursuant to the
preceding paragraphs or in any amendments thereto hereafter
enacted, for aviation fuel sold on or after December 1, 2019,
the Department shall each month deposit into the Aviation Fuel
Sales Tax Refund Fund an amount estimated by the Department to
be required for refunds of the 80% portion of the tax on
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


aviation    fuel    under    this    Act.   The    Department    shall     only
deposit moneys into the Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund
under     this   paragraph     for    so    long     as   the   revenue    use
requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133 are
binding on the State.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois Fund
and the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund pursuant to the
preceding paragraphs or in any amendments thereto hereafter
enacted, beginning July 1, 1993 and ending on September 30,
2013, the Department shall each month pay into the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund 0.27% of 80% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate on the selling
price of tangible personal property.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois
Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois
Tax     Increment    Fund,   and     the    Energy    Infrastructure       Fund
pursuant to the preceding paragraphs or in any amendments to
this Section hereafter enacted, beginning on the first day of
the first calendar month to occur on or after August 26, 2014
(the effective date of Public Act 98-1098), each month, from
the collections made under Section 9 of the Use Tax Act,
Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service
Occupation Tax Act, and Section 3 of the Retailers' Occupation
Tax Act, the Department shall pay into the Tax Compliance and
Administration Fund, to be used, subject to appropriation, to
fund    additional    auditors      and    compliance     personnel   at   the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Department of Revenue, an amount equal to 1/12 of 5% of 80% of
the cash receipts collected during the preceding fiscal year
by the Audit Bureau of the Department under the Use Tax Act,
the Service Use Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, the
Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, and associated local occupation
and use taxes administered by the Department.
      Subject to payments of amounts into the Build Illinois
Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax Compliance and Administration
Fund as provided in this Section, beginning on July 1, 2018 the
Department shall pay each month into the Downstate Public
Transportation Fund the moneys required to be so paid under
Section 2-3 of the Downstate Public Transportation Act.
      Subject     to    successful      execution     and    delivery    of    a
public-private agreement between the public agency and private
entity and completion of the civic build, beginning on July 1,
2023,    of     the    remainder   of    the     moneys     received    by    the
Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and this Act, the Department shall
deposit the following specified deposits in the aggregate from
collections under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act, as required under Section 8.25g of the State Finance Act
for     distribution        consistent         with   the      Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
The moneys received by the Department pursuant to this Act and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


required   to     be    deposited       into    the      Civic    and    Transit
Infrastructure Fund are subject to the pledge, claim, and
charge   set    forth    in   Section    25-55     of    the     Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
As used in this paragraph, "civic build", "private entity",
"public-private        agreement",   and       "public    agency"       have   the
meanings   provided      in   Section    25-10     of    the     Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
         Fiscal Year ............................                 Total Deposit
         2024 .................................... $200,000,000
         2025 .................................... $206,000,000
         2026 .................................... $212,200,000
         2027 .................................... $218,500,000
         2028 .................................... $225,100,000
         2029 .................................... $288,700,000
         2030 .................................... $298,900,000
         2031 .................................... $309,300,000
         2032 .................................... $320,100,000
         2033 .................................... $331,200,000
         2034 .................................... $341,200,000
         2035 .................................... $351,400,000
         2036 .................................... $361,900,000
         2037 .................................... $372,800,000
         2038 .................................... $384,000,000
         2039 .................................... $395,500,000
         2040 .................................... $407,400,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        2041 .................................... $419,600,000
        2042 .................................... $432,200,000
        2043 .................................... $445,100,000
    Beginning July 1, 2021 and until July 1, 2022, subject to
the payment of amounts into the State and Local Sales Tax
Reform Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place
Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and
the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund as provided in this
Section, the Department shall pay each month into the Road
Fund the amount estimated to represent 16% of the net revenue
realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol.
Beginning July 1, 2022 and until July 1, 2023, subject to the
payment of amounts into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform
Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion
Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax
Compliance   and   Administration   Fund    as   provided   in   this
Section, the Department shall pay each month into the Road
Fund the amount estimated to represent 32% of the net revenue
realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol.
Beginning July 1, 2023 and until July 1, 2024, subject to the
payment of amounts into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform
Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion
Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax
Compliance   and   Administration   Fund    as   provided   in   this
Section, the Department shall pay each month into the Road
Fund the amount estimated to represent 48% of the net revenue
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol.
Beginning July 1, 2024 and until July 1, 2026, subject to the
payment of amounts into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform
Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion
Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax
Compliance    and   Administration          Fund    as    provided     in    this
Section, the Department shall pay each month into the Road
Fund the amount estimated to represent 64% of the net revenue
realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol.
Beginning on July 1, 2026, subject to the payment of amounts
into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund, the Build
Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the
Illinois    Tax   Increment       Fund,    and    the    Tax    Compliance    and
Administration      Fund     as    provided        in    this    Section,     the
Department shall pay each month into the Road Fund the amount
estimated to represent 80% of the net revenue realized from
the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol. As used in this
paragraph, "motor fuel" has the meaning given to that term in
Section 1.1 of the Motor Fuel Tax Law, and "gasohol" has the
meaning given to that term in Section 3-40 of this Act.
    Until    July   1,     2025,   of     the    remainder      of   the    moneys
received by the Department pursuant to this Act, 75% thereof
shall be paid into the State treasury and 25% shall be reserved
in a special account and used only for the transfer to the
Common School Fund as part of the monthly transfer from the
General Revenue Fund in accordance with Section 8a of the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


State Finance Act. Beginning July 1, 2025, of the remainder of
the moneys received by the Department pursuant to this Act,
75% shall be deposited into the General Revenue Fund and 25%
shall be deposited into the Common School Fund.
    As soon as possible after the first day of each month, upon
certification of the Department of Revenue, the Comptroller
shall order transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer from
the General Revenue Fund to the Motor Fuel Tax Fund an amount
equal to 1.7% of 80% of the net revenue realized under this Act
for the second preceding month. Beginning April 1, 2000, this
transfer is no longer required and shall not be made.
    Net revenue realized for a month shall be the revenue
collected by the State pursuant to this Act, less the amount
paid   out    during   that   month     as   refunds    to    taxpayers   for
overpayment of liability.
    For greater simplicity of administration, manufacturers,
importers and wholesalers whose products are sold at retail in
Illinois by numerous retailers, and who wish to do so, may
assume the responsibility for accounting and paying to the
Department all tax accruing under this Act with respect to
such sales, if the retailers who are affected do not make
written objection to the Department to this arrangement.
(Source: P.A. 103-154, eff. 6-30-23; 103-363, eff. 7-28-23;
103-592,     Article   75,    Section   75-5,    eff.     1-1-25;   103-592,
Article      110,   Section   110-5,    eff.    6-7-24;      103-1055,    eff.
12-20-24; 104-6, Article 5, Section 5-10, eff. 6-16-25; 104-6,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Article 35, Section 35-20, eff. 6-16-25; revised 1-12-26.)


      (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-457)
      Sec. 9. Except as to motor vehicles, watercraft, aircraft,
and trailers that are required to be registered with an agency
of this State, each retailer required or authorized to collect
the tax imposed by this Act shall pay to the Department the
amount of such tax (except as otherwise provided) at the time
when he is required to file his return for the period during
which such tax was collected, less a discount of 2.1% prior to
January 1, 1990, and 1.75% on and after January 1, 1990, or $5
per calendar year, whichever is greater, which is allowed to
reimburse the retailer for expenses incurred in collecting the
tax, keeping records, preparing and filing returns, remitting
the tax and supplying data to the Department on request.
Beginning with returns due on or after January 1, 2025, the
discount allowed in this Section, the Retailers' Occupation
Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Service Use
Tax    Act,   including    any   local    tax     administered   by    the
Department and reported on the same return, shall not exceed
$1,000 per month in the aggregate for returns other than
transaction returns filed during the month. When determining
the   discount   allowed   under   this   Section,     retailers      shall
include the amount of tax that would have been due at the 6.25%
rate but for the 1.25% rate imposed on sales tax holiday items
under Public Act 102-700. The discount under this Section is
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


not allowed for the 1.25% portion of taxes paid on aviation
fuel that is subject to the revenue use requirements of 49
U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133. When determining the
discount allowed under this Section, retailers shall include
the amount of tax that would have been due at the 1% rate but
for the 0% rate imposed under Public Act 102-700. In the case
of retailers who report and pay the tax on a transaction by
transaction basis, as provided in this Section, such discount
shall be taken with each such tax remittance instead of when
such retailer files his periodic return, but, beginning with
returns due on or after January 1, 2025, the discount allowed
under this Section and the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act,
including any local tax administered by the Department and
reported on the same transaction return, shall not exceed
$1,000 per month for all transaction returns filed during the
month. The discount allowed under this Section is allowed only
for returns that are filed in the manner required by this Act.
The Department may disallow the discount for retailers whose
certificate of registration is revoked at the time the return
is filed, but only if the Department's decision to revoke the
certificate of registration has become final. A retailer need
not remit that part of any tax collected by him to the extent
that he is required to remit and does remit the tax imposed by
the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, with respect to the sale of
the same property.
    Where such tangible personal property is sold under a
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


conditional sales contract, or under any other form of sale
wherein the payment of the principal sum, or a part thereof, is
extended beyond the close of the period for which the return is
filed, the retailer, in collecting the tax (except as to motor
vehicles, watercraft, aircraft, and trailers that are required
to be registered with an agency of this State), may collect for
each tax return period only the tax applicable to that part of
the selling price actually received during such tax return
period.
    In the case of leases, except as otherwise provided in
this Act, the lessor, in collecting the tax, may collect for
each tax return period only the tax applicable to that part of
the selling price actually received during such tax return
period.
    Except as provided in this Section, on or before the
twentieth day of each calendar month, such retailer shall file
a return for the preceding calendar month. Such return shall
be filed on forms prescribed by the Department and shall
furnish such information as the Department may reasonably
require. The return shall include the gross receipts on food
for human consumption that is to be consumed off the premises
where   it     is   sold   (other    than   alcoholic   beverages,   food
consisting of or infused with adult use cannabis, soft drinks,
and food that has been prepared for immediate consumption)
which   were    received    during    the   preceding   calendar   month,
quarter, or year, as appropriate, and upon which tax would
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


have been due but for the 0% rate imposed under Public Act
102-700. The return shall also include the amount of tax that
would have been due on food for human consumption that is to be
consumed    off   the    premises    where    it   is    sold      (other    than
alcoholic beverages, food consisting of or infused with adult
use cannabis, soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) but for the 0% rate imposed under
Public Act 102-700.
    On and after January 1, 2018, except for returns required
to be filed prior to January 1, 2023 for motor vehicles,
watercraft, aircraft, and trailers that are required to be
registered with an agency of this State, with respect to
retailers whose annual gross receipts average $20,000 or more,
all returns required to be filed pursuant to this Act shall be
filed electronically. On and after January 1, 2023, with
respect    to   retailers   whose    annual    gross         receipts   average
$20,000 or more, all returns required to be filed pursuant to
this Act, including, but not limited to, returns for motor
vehicles, watercraft, aircraft, and trailers that are required
to be registered with an agency of this State, shall be filed
electronically. Retailers who demonstrate that they do not
have access to the Internet or demonstrate hardship in filing
electronically     may    petition    the    Department        to    waive    the
electronic filing requirement.
    The    Department    may   require      returns     to    be    filed    on   a
quarterly basis. If so required, a return for each calendar
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


quarter shall be filed on or before the twentieth day of the
calendar month following the end of such calendar quarter. The
taxpayer shall also file a return with the Department for each
of the first 2 months of each calendar quarter, on or before
the twentieth day of the following calendar month, stating:
        1. The name of the seller;
        2. The address of the principal place of business from
    which he engages in       the business of selling          tangible
    personal property at retail in this State;
        3. The total amount of taxable receipts received by
    him during the preceding calendar month from sales of
    tangible personal property by him during such preceding
    calendar month, including receipts from charge and time
    sales, but less all deductions allowed by law;
        4. The amount of credit provided in Section 2d of this
    Act;
        5. The amount of tax due;
        5-5. The signature of the taxpayer; and
        6. Such other reasonable information as the Department
    may require.
    Each retailer required or authorized to collect the tax
imposed by this Act on aviation fuel sold at retail in this
State during the preceding calendar month shall, instead of
reporting   and    paying   tax   on   aviation   fuel   as   otherwise
required by this Section, report and pay such tax on a separate
aviation fuel tax return. The requirements related to the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


return   shall   be    as    otherwise   provided       in   this    Section.
Notwithstanding       any   other   provisions    of    this   Act    to   the
contrary, retailers collecting tax on aviation fuel shall file
all aviation fuel tax returns and shall make all aviation fuel
tax   payments   by    electronic    means   in   the    manner     and    form
required by the Department. For purposes of this Section,
"aviation fuel" means jet fuel and aviation gasoline.
      If a taxpayer fails to sign a return within 30 days after
the proper notice and demand for signature by the Department,
the return shall be considered valid and any amount shown to be
due on the return shall be deemed assessed.
      Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act to the
contrary, retailers subject to tax on cannabis shall file all
cannabis tax returns and shall make all cannabis tax payments
by electronic means in the manner and form required by the
Department.
      Beginning October 1, 1993, a taxpayer who has an average
monthly tax liability of $150,000 or more shall make all
payments required by rules of the Department by electronic
funds transfer. Beginning October 1, 1994, a taxpayer who has
an average monthly tax liability of $100,000 or more shall
make all payments required by rules of the Department by
electronic    funds     transfer.    Beginning    October      1,    1995,   a
taxpayer who has an average monthly tax liability of $50,000
or more shall make all payments required by rules of the
Department by electronic funds transfer. Beginning October 1,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


2000, a taxpayer who has an annual tax liability of $200,000 or
more   shall      make   all    payments      required   by    rules       of   the
Department by electronic funds transfer. The term "annual tax
liability" shall be the sum of the taxpayer's liabilities
under this Act, and under all other State and local occupation
and use tax laws administered by the Department, for the
immediately preceding calendar year. The term "average monthly
tax liability" means the sum of the taxpayer's liabilities
under this Act, and under all other State and local occupation
and use tax laws administered by the Department, for the
immediately preceding calendar year divided by 12. Beginning
on October 1, 2002, a taxpayer who has a tax liability in the
amount set forth in subsection (b) of Section 2505-210 of the
Department of Revenue Law shall make all payments required by
rules of the Department by electronic funds transfer.
    Before     August    1     of   each    year   beginning   in    1993,      the
Department     shall     notify      all    taxpayers    required      to       make
payments by electronic funds transfer. All taxpayers required
to make payments by electronic funds transfer shall make those
payments for a minimum of one year beginning on October 1.
    Any taxpayer not required to make payments by electronic
funds transfer may make payments by electronic funds transfer
with the permission of the Department.
    All taxpayers required to make payment by electronic funds
transfer and any taxpayers authorized to voluntarily make
payments     by    electronic       funds    transfer    shall      make    those
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


payments in the manner authorized by the Department.
    The Department shall adopt such rules as are necessary to
effectuate a program of electronic funds transfer and the
requirements of this Section.
    Before October 1, 2000, if the taxpayer's average monthly
tax liability to the Department under this Act, the Retailers'
Occupation   Tax   Act,    the   Service    Occupation    Tax   Act,   the
Service Use Tax Act was $10,000 or more during the preceding 4
complete calendar quarters, he shall file a return with the
Department each month by the 20th day of the month next
following    the   month   during   which    such   tax   liability     is
incurred and shall make payments to the Department on or
before the 7th, 15th, 22nd and last day of the month during
which such liability is incurred. On and after October 1,
2000, if the taxpayer's average monthly tax liability to the
Department under this Act, the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act,
the Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Service Use Tax Act was
$20,000 or more during the preceding 4 complete calendar
quarters, he shall file a return with the Department each
month by the 20th day of the month next following the month
during which such tax liability is incurred and shall make
payment to the Department on or before the 7th, 15th, 22nd and
last day of the month during which such liability is incurred.
If the month during which such tax liability is incurred began
prior to January 1, 1985, each payment shall be in an amount
equal to 1/4 of the taxpayer's actual liability for the month
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


or an amount set by the Department not to exceed 1/4 of the
average monthly liability of the taxpayer to the Department
for the preceding 4 complete calendar quarters (excluding the
month of highest liability and the month of lowest liability
in such 4 quarter period). If the month during which such tax
liability is incurred begins on or after January 1, 1985, and
prior to January 1, 1987, each payment shall be in an amount
equal to 22.5% of the taxpayer's actual liability for the
month   or   27.5%    of     the   taxpayer's     liability   for   the    same
calendar month of the preceding year. If the month during
which   such   tax    liability      is   incurred   begins   on    or    after
January 1, 1987, and prior to January 1, 1988, each payment
shall be in an amount equal to 22.5% of the taxpayer's actual
liability for the month or 26.25% of the taxpayer's liability
for the same calendar month of the preceding year. If the month
during which such tax liability is incurred begins on or after
January 1, 1988, and prior to January 1, 1989, or begins on or
after January 1, 1996, each payment shall be in an amount equal
to 22.5% of the taxpayer's actual liability for the month or
25% of the taxpayer's liability for the same calendar month of
the   preceding      year.    If   the    month   during   which    such   tax
liability is incurred begins on or after January 1, 1989, and
prior to January 1, 1996, each payment shall be in an amount
equal to 22.5% of the taxpayer's actual liability for the
month or 25% of the taxpayer's liability for the same calendar
month of the preceding year or 100% of the taxpayer's actual
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


liability for the quarter monthly reporting period. The amount
of such quarter monthly payments shall be credited against the
final tax liability of the taxpayer's return for that month.
Before October 1, 2000, once applicable, the requirement of
the making of quarter monthly payments to the Department shall
continue until such taxpayer's average monthly liability to
the   Department   during   the   preceding   4   complete   calendar
quarters (excluding the month of highest liability and the
month of lowest liability) is less than $9,000, or until such
taxpayer's average monthly liability to the Department as
computed for each calendar quarter of the 4 preceding complete
calendar quarter period is less than $10,000. However, if a
taxpayer can show the Department that a substantial change in
the taxpayer's business has occurred which causes the taxpayer
to anticipate that his average monthly tax liability for the
reasonably foreseeable future will fall below the $10,000
threshold stated above, then such taxpayer may petition the
Department for change in such taxpayer's reporting status. On
and after October 1, 2000, once applicable, the requirement of
the making of quarter monthly payments to the Department shall
continue until such taxpayer's average monthly liability to
the   Department   during   the   preceding   4   complete   calendar
quarters (excluding the month of highest liability and the
month of lowest liability) is less than $19,000 or until such
taxpayer's average monthly liability to the Department as
computed for each calendar quarter of the 4 preceding complete
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


calendar quarter period is less than $20,000. However, if a
taxpayer can show the Department that a substantial change in
the taxpayer's business has occurred which causes the taxpayer
to anticipate that his average monthly tax liability for the
reasonably foreseeable future will fall below the $20,000
threshold stated above, then such taxpayer may petition the
Department for a change in such taxpayer's reporting status.
The Department shall change such taxpayer's reporting status
unless it finds that such change is seasonal in nature and not
likely to be long term. Quarter monthly payment status shall
be determined under this paragraph as if the rate reduction to
1.25% in Public Act 102-700 on sales tax holiday items had not
occurred. For quarter monthly payments due on or after July 1,
2023   and    through     June   30,   2024,   "25%   of   the   taxpayer's
liability for the same calendar month of the preceding year"
shall be determined as if the rate reduction to 1.25% in Public
Act 102-700 on sales tax holiday items had not occurred.
Quarter monthly payment status shall be determined under this
paragraph as if the rate reduction to 0% in Public Act 102-700
on food for human consumption that is to be consumed off the
premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages,
food consisting of or infused with adult use cannabis, soft
drinks,      and   food   that   has    been   prepared    for    immediate
consumption) had not occurred. For quarter monthly payments
due under this paragraph on or after July 1, 2023 and through
June 30, 2024, "25% of the taxpayer's liability for the same
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


calendar month of the preceding year" shall be determined as
if the rate reduction to 0% in Public Act 102-700 had not
occurred. If any such quarter monthly payment is not paid at
the time or in the amount required by this Section, then the
taxpayer shall be liable for penalties and interest on the
difference between the minimum amount due and the amount of
such quarter monthly payment actually and timely paid, except
insofar as the taxpayer has previously made payments for that
month to the Department in excess of the minimum payments
previously due as provided in this Section. The Department
shall make reasonable rules and regulations to govern the
quarter monthly payment amount and quarter monthly payment
dates for taxpayers who file on other than a calendar monthly
basis.
     If any such payment provided for in this Section exceeds
the taxpayer's liabilities under this Act, the Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act and the
Service Use Tax Act, as shown by an original monthly return,
the Department shall issue to the taxpayer a credit memorandum
no   later   than   30   days   after   the   date   of   payment,   which
memorandum may be submitted by the taxpayer to the Department
in payment of tax liability subsequently to be remitted by the
taxpayer to the Department or be assigned by the taxpayer to a
similar taxpayer under this Act, the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act or the Service Use Tax Act,
in accordance with reasonable rules and regulations to be
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


prescribed by the Department, except that if such excess
payment is shown on an original monthly return and is made
after December 31, 1986, no credit memorandum shall be issued,
unless requested by the taxpayer. If no such request is made,
the   taxpayer   may   credit   such   excess    payment   against   tax
liability subsequently to be remitted by the taxpayer to the
Department under this Act, the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act,
the Service Occupation Tax Act or the Service Use Tax Act, in
accordance with reasonable rules and regulations prescribed by
the Department. If the Department subsequently determines that
all or any part of the credit taken was not actually due to the
taxpayer, the taxpayer's vendor's discount shall be reduced,
if necessary, to reflect the difference between the credit
taken and that actually due, and the taxpayer shall be liable
for penalties and interest on such difference.
      If the retailer is otherwise required to file a monthly
return and if the retailer's average monthly tax liability to
the   Department   does   not   exceed   $200,    the   Department   may
authorize his returns to be filed on a quarter annual basis,
with the return for January, February, and March of a given
year being due by April 20 of such year; with the return for
April, May and June of a given year being due by July 20 of
such year; with the return for July, August and September of a
given year being due by October 20 of such year, and with the
return for October, November and December of a given year
being due by January 20 of the following year.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    If the retailer is otherwise required to file a monthly or
quarterly return and if the retailer's average monthly tax
liability    to   the    Department     does      not     exceed   $50,   the
Department may authorize his returns to be filed on an annual
basis, with the return for a given year being due by January 20
of the following year.
    Such quarter annual and annual returns, as to form and
substance,   shall      be   subject   to   the    same    requirements    as
monthly returns.
    Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act concerning
the time within which a retailer may file his return, in the
case of any retailer who ceases to engage in a kind of business
which makes him responsible for filing returns under this Act,
such retailer shall file a final return under this Act with the
Department not more than one month after discontinuing such
business.
    In addition, with respect to motor vehicles, watercraft,
aircraft, and trailers that are required to be registered with
an agency of this State, except as otherwise provided in this
Section, every retailer selling this kind of tangible personal
property shall file, with the Department, upon a form to be
prescribed and supplied by the Department, a separate return
for each such item of tangible personal property which the
retailer sells, except that if, in the same transaction, (i) a
retailer of aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicles or trailers
transfers more than one aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicle or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


trailer to another aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicle or
trailer retailer for the purpose of resale or (ii) a retailer
of aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicles, or trailers transfers
more than one aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicle, or trailer
to a purchaser for use as a qualifying rolling stock as
provided in Section 3-55 of this Act, then that seller may
report the transfer of all the aircraft, watercraft, motor
vehicles or trailers involved in that transaction to the
Department on the same uniform invoice-transaction reporting
return form. For purposes of this Section, "watercraft" means
a Class 2, Class 3, or Class 4 watercraft as defined in Section
3-2   of   the    Boat    Registration      and    Safety      Act,   a   personal
watercraft, or any boat equipped with an inboard motor.
      In addition, with respect to motor vehicles, watercraft,
aircraft, and trailers that are required to be registered with
an agency of this State, every person who is engaged in the
business    of     leasing      or   renting      such    items   and     who,    in
connection       with    such   business,      sells     any   such   item   to   a
retailer for the purpose of resale is, notwithstanding any
other provision of this Section to the contrary, authorized to
meet the return-filing requirement of this Act by reporting
the transfer of all the aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicles,
or trailers transferred for resale during a month to the
Department on the same uniform invoice-transaction reporting
return form on or before the 20th of the month following the
month in which the transfer takes place. Notwithstanding any
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


other provision of this Act to the contrary, all returns filed
under this paragraph must be filed by electronic means in the
manner and form as required by the Department.
    The transaction reporting return in the case of motor
vehicles or trailers that are required to be registered with
an agency of this State, shall be the same document as the
Uniform Invoice referred to in Section 5-402 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code and must show the name and address of the seller;
the name and address of the purchaser; the amount of the
selling price including the amount allowed by the retailer for
traded-in property, if any; the amount allowed by the retailer
for the traded-in tangible personal property, if any, to the
extent to which Section 2 of this Act allows an exemption for
the value of traded-in property; the balance payable after
deducting   such   trade-in    allowance    from    the   total   selling
price; the amount of tax due from the retailer with respect to
such   transaction;   the     amount   of   tax    collected   from   the
purchaser by the retailer on such transaction (or satisfactory
evidence that such tax is not due in that particular instance,
if that is claimed to be the fact); the place and date of the
sale; a sufficient identification of the property sold; such
other information as is required in Section 5-402 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, and such other information as the
Department may reasonably require.
    The transaction reporting return in the case of watercraft
and aircraft must show the name and address of the seller; the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


name and address of the purchaser; the amount of the selling
price    including     the   amount     allowed          by    the    retailer     for
traded-in property, if any; the amount allowed by the retailer
for the traded-in tangible personal property, if any, to the
extent to which Section 2 of this Act allows an exemption for
the value of traded-in property; the balance payable after
deducting      such   trade-in    allowance        from        the    total   selling
price; the amount of tax due from the retailer with respect to
such    transaction;     the     amount      of    tax    collected         from   the
purchaser by the retailer on such transaction (or satisfactory
evidence that such tax is not due in that particular instance,
if that is claimed to be the fact); the place and date of the
sale, a sufficient identification of the property sold, and
such    other    information     as    the    Department             may   reasonably
require.
    Such transaction reporting return shall be filed not later
than 20 days after the date of delivery of the item that is
being sold, but may be filed by the retailer at any time sooner
than that if he chooses to do so. The transaction reporting
return and tax remittance or proof of exemption from the tax
that    is   imposed   by    this     Act    may    be        transmitted     to   the
Department by way of the State agency with which, or State
officer with whom, the tangible personal property must be
titled or registered (if titling or registration is required)
if the Department and such agency or State officer determine
that    this     procedure     will       expedite        the        processing     of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


applications for title or registration.
    With each such transaction reporting return, the retailer
shall remit the proper amount of tax due (or shall submit
satisfactory evidence that the sale is not taxable if that is
the case), to the Department or its agents, whereupon the
Department shall issue, in the purchaser's name, a tax receipt
(or a certificate of exemption if the Department is satisfied
that the particular sale is tax exempt) which such purchaser
may submit to the agency with which, or State officer with
whom, he must title or register the tangible personal property
that is involved (if titling or registration is required) in
support   of   such   purchaser's   application   for   an   Illinois
certificate or other evidence of title or registration to such
tangible personal property.
    No retailer's failure or refusal to remit tax under this
Act precludes a user, who has paid the proper tax to the
retailer, from obtaining his certificate of title or other
evidence of title or registration (if titling or registration
is required) upon satisfying the Department that such user has
paid the proper tax (if tax is due) to the retailer. The
Department shall adopt appropriate rules to carry out the
mandate of this paragraph.
    If the user who would otherwise pay tax to the retailer
wants the transaction reporting return filed and the payment
of tax or proof of exemption made to the Department before the
retailer is willing to take these actions and such user has not
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


paid the tax to the retailer, such user may certify to the fact
of such delay by the retailer, and may (upon the Department
being satisfied of the truth of such certification) transmit
the information required by the transaction reporting return
and the remittance for tax or proof of exemption directly to
the    Department    and     obtain    his    tax    receipt       or   exemption
determination, in which event the transaction reporting return
and tax remittance (if a tax payment was required) shall be
credited by the Department to the proper retailer's account
with    the   Department,      but    without       the     vendor's     discount
provided for in this Section being allowed. When the user pays
the tax directly to the Department, he shall pay the tax in the
same amount and in the same form in which it would be remitted
if the tax had been remitted to the Department by the retailer.
      On and after January 1, 2025, with respect to the lease of
trailers, other than semitrailers as defined in Section 1-187
of    the   Illinois    Vehicle      Code,    that    are     required      to    be
registered with an agency of this State and that are subject to
the tax on lease receipts under this Act, notwithstanding any
other provision of this Act to the contrary, for the purpose of
reporting     and   paying    tax     under   this     Act    on    those    lease
receipts,     lessors   shall     file   returns       in    addition       to   and
separate from the transaction reporting return. Lessors shall
file those lease returns and make payment to the Department by
electronic means on or before the 20th day of each month
following the month, quarter, or year, as applicable, in which
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


lease receipts were received. All lease receipts received by
the lessor from the lease of those trailers during the same
reporting period shall be reported and tax shall be paid on a
single return form to be prescribed by the Department.
      Where a retailer collects the tax with respect to the
selling price of tangible personal property which he sells and
the    purchaser     thereafter    returns    such     tangible        personal
property and the retailer refunds the selling price thereof to
the   purchaser,     such    retailer     shall    also    refund,      to   the
purchaser, the tax so collected from the purchaser. When
filing his return for the period in which he refunds such tax
to the purchaser, the retailer may deduct the amount of the tax
so refunded by him to the purchaser from any other use tax
which such retailer may be required to pay or remit to the
Department, as shown by such return, if the amount of the tax
to be deducted was previously remitted to the Department by
such retailer. If the retailer has not previously remitted the
amount of such tax to the Department, he is entitled to no
deduction    under    this   Act   upon   refunding       such   tax    to   the
purchaser.
      Any retailer filing a return under this Section shall also
include (for the purpose of paying tax thereon) the total tax
covered by such return upon the selling price of tangible
personal property purchased by him at retail from a retailer,
but as to which the tax imposed by this Act was not collected
from the retailer filing such return, and such retailer shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


remit the amount of such tax to the Department when filing such
return.
    If experience indicates such action to be practicable, the
Department may prescribe and furnish a combination or joint
return which will enable retailers, who are required to file
returns hereunder and also under the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act, to furnish all the return information required by both
Acts on the one form.
    Where the retailer has more than one business registered
with the Department under separate registration under this
Act, such retailer may not file each return that is due as a
single return covering all such registered businesses, but
shall file separate returns for each such registered business.
    Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund, a special
fund in the State treasury which is hereby created, the net
revenue realized for the preceding month from the 1% tax
imposed under this Act.
    Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the County and Mass Transit District Fund 4% of the
net revenue realized for the preceding month from the 6.25%
general   rate   on   the   selling   price    of   tangible   personal
property which is purchased outside Illinois at retail from a
retailer and which is titled or registered by an agency of this
State's government.
    Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


pay into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund, a special
fund in the State treasury, 20% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate on the selling
price of tangible personal property, other than (i) tangible
personal   property      which    is   purchased    outside    Illinois     at
retail from a retailer and which is titled or registered by an
agency of this State's government and (ii) aviation fuel sold
on or after December 1, 2019. This exception for aviation fuel
only applies for so long as the revenue use requirements of 49
U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133 are binding on the State.
      For aviation fuel sold on or after December 1, 2019, each
month the Department shall pay into the State Aviation Program
Fund 20% of the net revenue realized for the preceding month
from the 6.25% general rate on the selling price of aviation
fuel,   less   an     amount    estimated   by    the   Department    to    be
required for refunds of the 20% portion of the tax on aviation
fuel under this Act, which amount shall be deposited into the
Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund. The Department shall only
pay   moneys   into    the     State   Aviation    Program    Fund   and   the
Aviation Fuel Fuels Sales Tax Refund Fund under this Act for so
long as the revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and
49 U.S.C. 47133 are binding on the State.
      Beginning August 1, 2000, each month the Department shall
pay into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund 100% of the
net revenue realized for the preceding month from the 1.25%
rate on the selling price of motor fuel and gasohol. If, in any
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


month, the tax on sales tax holiday items, as defined in
Section   3-6,      is   imposed      at    the   rate   of    1.25%,     then   the
Department shall pay 100% of the net revenue realized for that
month from the 1.25% rate on the selling price of sales tax
holiday items into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund.
     Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the Local Government Tax Fund 16% of the net revenue
realized for the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate
on the selling price of tangible personal property which is
purchased outside Illinois at retail from a retailer and which
is   titled    or     registered       by    an   agency      of   this    State's
government.
     Beginning October 1, 2009 and through June 30, 2026, each
month the Department shall pay into the Capital Projects Fund
an   amount    that      is   equal    to    an   amount      estimated    by    the
Department to represent 80% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the sale of candy, grooming and
hygiene products, and soft drinks that had been taxed at a rate
of 1% prior to September 1, 2009, but that are now taxed at
6.25%.
     Beginning July 1, 2011, each month the Department shall
pay into the Clean Air Act Permit Fund 80% of the net revenue
realized for the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate
on the selling price of sorbents used in Illinois in the
process   of   sorbent        injection      as   used   to    comply     with   the
Environmental Protection Act or the federal Clean Air Act, but
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the total payment into the Clean Air Act Permit Fund under this
Act and the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act shall not exceed
$2,000,000 in any fiscal year.
      Beginning July 1, 2013, each month the Department shall
pay into the Underground Storage Tank Fund from the proceeds
collected under this Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the Service
Occupation Tax Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act an
amount equal to the average monthly deficit in the Underground
Storage Tank Fund during the prior year, as certified annually
by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, but the total
payment into the Underground Storage Tank Fund under this Act,
the Service Use Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, and
the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act shall not exceed $18,000,000
in any State fiscal year. As used in this paragraph, the
"average monthly deficit" shall be equal to the difference
between the average monthly claims for payment by the fund and
the    average   monthly   revenues   deposited        into   the   fund,
excluding payments made pursuant to this paragraph.
      Beginning July 1, 2015, of the remainder of the moneys
received by the Department under this Act, the Service Use Tax
Act,   the   Service   Occupation   Tax   Act,   and    the   Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act, each month the Department shall deposit
$500,000 into the State Crime Laboratory Fund.
      Of the remainder of the moneys received by the Department
pursuant to this Act, (a) 1.75% thereof shall be paid into the
Build Illinois Fund and (b) prior to July 1, 1989, 2.2% and on
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


and after July 1, 1989, 3.8% thereof shall be paid into the
Build Illinois Fund; provided, however, that if in any fiscal
year the sum of (1) the aggregate of 2.2% or 3.8%, as the case
may be, of the moneys received by the Department and required
to be paid into the Build Illinois Fund pursuant to Section 3
of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, Section 9 of the Use Tax
Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, and Section 9 of the
Service Occupation Tax Act, such Acts being hereinafter called
the "Tax Acts" and such aggregate of 2.2% or 3.8%, as the case
may   be,   of   moneys   being   hereinafter   called   the    "Tax   Act
Amount", and (2) the amount transferred to the Build Illinois
Fund from the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund shall be
less than the Annual Specified Amount (as defined in Section 3
of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act), an amount equal to the
difference shall be immediately paid into the Build Illinois
Fund from other moneys received by the Department pursuant to
the Tax Acts; and further provided, that if on the last
business day of any month the sum of (1) the Tax Act Amount
required to be deposited into the Build Illinois Bond Account
in the Build Illinois Fund during such month and (2) the amount
transferred during such month to the Build Illinois Fund from
the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund shall have been less
than 1/12 of the Annual Specified Amount, an amount equal to
the   difference    shall   be    immediately   paid   into    the   Build
Illinois Fund from other moneys received by the Department
pursuant to the Tax Acts; and, further provided, that in no
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


event shall the payments required under the preceding proviso
result in aggregate payments into the Build Illinois Fund
pursuant to this clause (b) for any fiscal year in excess of
the greater of (i) the Tax Act Amount or (ii) the Annual
Specified Amount for such fiscal year; and, further provided,
that the amounts payable into the Build Illinois Fund under
this clause (b) shall be payable only until such time as the
aggregate    amount     on   deposit      under    each   trust   indenture
securing Bonds issued and outstanding pursuant to the Build
Illinois Bond Act is sufficient, taking into account any
future investment income, to fully provide, in accordance with
such indenture, for the defeasance of or the payment of the
principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds
secured by such indenture and on any Bonds expected to be
issued thereafter and all fees and costs payable with respect
thereto, all as certified by the Director of the Bureau of the
Budget (now Governor's Office of Management and Budget). If on
the   last   business    day   of   any    month    in    which   Bonds   are
outstanding pursuant to the Build Illinois Bond Act, the
aggregate of the moneys deposited into the Build Illinois Bond
Account in the Build Illinois Fund in such month shall be less
than the amount required to be transferred in such month from
the Build Illinois Bond Account to the Build Illinois Bond
Retirement and Interest Fund pursuant to Section 13 of the
Build Illinois Bond Act, an amount equal to such deficiency
shall be immediately paid from other moneys received by the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Department pursuant to the Tax Acts to the Build Illinois
Fund; provided, however, that any amounts paid to the Build
Illinois Fund in any fiscal year pursuant to this sentence
shall be deemed to constitute payments pursuant to clause (b)
of     the   preceding    sentence     and     shall     reduce    the     amount
otherwise payable for such fiscal year pursuant to clause (b)
of     the   preceding    sentence.     The     moneys       received     by    the
Department pursuant to this Act and required to be deposited
into the Build Illinois Fund are subject to the pledge, claim
and charge set forth in Section 12 of the Build Illinois Bond
Act.
     Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois Fund
as provided in the preceding paragraph or in any amendment
thereto hereafter enacted, the following specified monthly
installment of the amount requested in the certificate of the
Chairman of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
provided under Section 8.25f of the State Finance Act, but not
in excess of the sums designated as "Total Deposit", shall be
deposited in the aggregate from collections under Section 9 of
the Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, Section
9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, and Section 3 of the
Retailers'     Occupation     Tax     Act     into     the    McCormick        Place
Expansion Project Fund in the specified fiscal years.
                Fiscal Year                                       Total Deposit
                   1993                                                          $0
                   1994                                             53,000,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


                  1995                58,000,000
                  1996                61,000,000
                  1997                64,000,000
                  1998                68,000,000
                  1999                71,000,000
                  2000                75,000,000
                  2001                80,000,000
                  2002                93,000,000
                  2003                99,000,000
                  2004               103,000,000
                  2005               108,000,000
                  2006               113,000,000
                  2007               119,000,000
                  2008               126,000,000
                  2009               132,000,000
                  2010               139,000,000
                  2011               146,000,000
                  2012               153,000,000
                  2013               161,000,000
                  2014               170,000,000
                  2015               179,000,000
                  2016               189,000,000
                  2017               199,000,000
                  2018               210,000,000
                  2019               221,000,000
                  2020               233,000,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


                  2021                           300,000,000
                  2022                           300,000,000
                  2023                           300,000,000
                  2024                           300,000,000
                  2025                           300,000,000
                  2026                           300,000,000
                  2027                           375,000,000
                  2028                           375,000,000
                  2029                           375,000,000
                  2030                           375,000,000
                  2031                           375,000,000
                  2032                           375,000,000
                  2033                           375,000,000
                  2034                           375,000,000
                  2035                           375,000,000
                  2036                           450,000,000
                  and
          each fiscal year
       thereafter that bonds
       are outstanding under
        Section 13.2 of the
       Metropolitan Pier and
     Exposition Authority Act,
  but not after fiscal year 2060.
    Beginning July 20, 1993 and in each month of each fiscal
year thereafter, one-eighth of the amount requested in the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


certificate of the Chairman of the Metropolitan Pier and
Exposition Authority for that fiscal year, less the amount
deposited into the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund by
the State Treasurer in the respective month under subsection
(g) of Section 13 of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition
Authority Act, plus cumulative deficiencies in the deposits
required under this Section for previous months and years,
shall be deposited into the McCormick Place Expansion Project
Fund, until the full amount requested for the fiscal year, but
not   in    excess    of     the    amount      specified    above    as   "Total
Deposit", has been deposited.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Capital Projects
Fund, the Clean Air Act Permit Fund, the Build Illinois Fund,
and the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund pursuant to the
preceding paragraphs or in any amendments thereto hereafter
enacted, for aviation fuel sold on or after December 1, 2019,
the Department shall each month deposit into the Aviation Fuel
Sales Tax Refund Fund an amount estimated by the Department to
be required for refunds of the 80% portion of the tax on
aviation     fuel    under    this       Act.   The    Department    shall    only
deposit moneys into the Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund
under      this   paragraph        for    so    long    as   the    revenue   use
requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133 are
binding on the State.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois Fund
and the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund pursuant to the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


preceding paragraphs or in any amendments thereto hereafter
enacted, beginning July 1, 1993 and ending on September 30,
2013, the Department shall each month pay into the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund 0.27% of 80% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate on the selling
price of tangible personal property.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois
Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois
Tax    Increment    Fund,   and   the    Energy   Infrastructure      Fund
pursuant to the preceding paragraphs or in any amendments to
this Section hereafter enacted, beginning on the first day of
the first calendar month to occur on or after August 26, 2014
(the effective date of Public Act 98-1098), each month, from
the collections made under Section 9 of the Use Tax Act,
Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service
Occupation Tax Act, and Section 3 of the Retailers' Occupation
Tax Act, the Department shall pay into the Tax Compliance and
Administration Fund, to be used, subject to appropriation, to
fund   additional    auditors     and   compliance   personnel   at   the
Department of Revenue, an amount equal to 1/12 of 5% of 80% of
the cash receipts collected during the preceding fiscal year
by the Audit Bureau of the Department under the Use Tax Act,
the Service Use Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, the
Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, and associated local occupation
and use taxes administered by the Department.
      Subject to payments of amounts into the Build Illinois
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax Compliance and Administration
Fund as provided in this Section, beginning on July 1, 2018 the
Department shall pay each month into the Downstate Public
Transportation Fund the moneys required to be so paid under
Section 2-3 of the Downstate Public Transportation Act.
      Subject      to      successful     execution            and    delivery     of    a
public-private agreement between the public agency and private
entity and completion of the civic build, beginning on July 1,
2023,    of     the     remainder    of      the     moneys          received    by     the
Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and this Act, the Department shall
deposit the following specified deposits in the aggregate from
collections under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act, as required under Section 8.25g of the State Finance Act
for      distribution          consistent          with        the      Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
The moneys received by the Department pursuant to this Act and
required      to      be    deposited       into     the       Civic     and     Transit
Infrastructure Fund are subject to the pledge, claim, and
charge    set      forth     in   Section    25-55        of    the     Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
As used in this paragraph, "civic build", "private entity",
"public-private            agreement",    and      "public       agency"        have    the
meanings      provided       in   Section    25-10        of    the     Public-Private
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
        Fiscal Year ............................   Total Deposit
        2024 .................................... $200,000,000
        2025 .................................... $206,000,000
        2026 .................................... $212,200,000
        2027 .................................... $218,500,000
        2028 .................................... $225,100,000
        2029 .................................... $288,700,000
        2030 .................................... $298,900,000
        2031 .................................... $309,300,000
        2032 .................................... $320,100,000
        2033 .................................... $331,200,000
        2034 .................................... $341,200,000
        2035 .................................... $351,400,000
        2036 .................................... $361,900,000
        2037 .................................... $372,800,000
        2038 .................................... $384,000,000
        2039 .................................... $395,500,000
        2040 .................................... $407,400,000
        2041 .................................... $419,600,000
        2042 .................................... $432,200,000
        2043 .................................... $445,100,000
    Beginning July 1, 2021 and until July 1, 2022, subject to
the payment of amounts into the State and Local Sales Tax
Reform Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place
Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund as provided in this
Section, the Department shall pay each month into the Road
Fund the amount estimated to represent 16% of the net revenue
realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol.
Beginning July 1, 2022 and until July 1, 2023, subject to the
payment of amounts into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform
Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion
Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax
Compliance   and   Administration   Fund    as   provided   in   this
Section, the Department shall pay each month into the Road
Fund the amount estimated to represent 32% of the net revenue
realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol.
Beginning July 1, 2023 and until July 1, 2024, subject to the
payment of amounts into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform
Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion
Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax
Compliance   and   Administration   Fund    as   provided   in   this
Section, the Department shall pay each month into the Road
Fund the amount estimated to represent 48% of the net revenue
realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol.
Beginning July 1, 2024 and until July 1, 2026, subject to the
payment of amounts into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform
Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion
Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax
Compliance   and   Administration   Fund    as   provided   in   this
Section, the Department shall pay each month into the Road
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Fund the amount estimated to represent 64% of the net revenue
realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol.
Beginning on July 1, 2026, subject to the payment of amounts
into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund, the Build
Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the
Illinois    Tax   Increment      Fund,    and    the   Tax    Compliance   and
Administration     Fund     as    provided       in    this    Section,    the
Department shall pay each month into the Public Transportation
Fund and the Downstate Public Transportation Fund the amount
estimated to represent 80% of the net revenue realized from
the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol. Moneys shall be
apportioned as follows: 85% into the Public Transportation
Fund and 15% into the Downstate Public Transportation Fund. As
used in this paragraph, "motor fuel" has the meaning given to
that term in Section 1.1 of the Motor Fuel Tax Law, and
"gasohol" has the meaning given to that term in Section 3-40 of
this Act.
    Until   July    1,    2025,   of     the    remainder     of   the   moneys
received by the Department pursuant to this Act, 75% thereof
shall be paid into the State treasury and 25% shall be reserved
in a special account and used only for the transfer to the
Common School Fund as part of the monthly transfer from the
General Revenue Fund in accordance with Section 8a of the
State Finance Act. Beginning July 1, 2025, of the remainder of
the moneys received by the Department pursuant to this Act,
75% shall be deposited into the General Revenue Fund and 25%
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


shall be deposited into the Common School Fund.
    As soon as possible after the first day of each month, upon
certification of the Department of Revenue, the Comptroller
shall order transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer from
the General Revenue Fund to the Motor Fuel Tax Fund an amount
equal to 1.7% of 80% of the net revenue realized under this Act
for the second preceding month. Beginning April 1, 2000, this
transfer is no longer required and shall not be made.
    Net revenue realized for a month shall be the revenue
collected by the State pursuant to this Act, less the amount
paid   out    during    that    month    as   refunds    to    taxpayers   for
overpayment of liability.
    For greater simplicity of administration, manufacturers,
importers and wholesalers whose products are sold at retail in
Illinois by numerous retailers, and who wish to do so, may
assume the responsibility for accounting and paying to the
Department all tax accruing under this Act with respect to
such sales, if the retailers who are affected do not make
written objection to the Department to this arrangement.
(Source: P.A. 103-154, eff. 6-30-23; 103-363, eff. 7-28-23;
103-592,     Article    75,    Section   75-5,    eff.     1-1-25;   103-592,
Article      110,   Section    110-5,    eff.    6-7-24;      103-1055,    eff.
12-20-24; 104-6, Article 5, Section 5-10, eff. 6-16-25; 104-6,
Article      35,    Section    35-20,    eff.    6-16-25;     104-457,     eff.
6-1-26.)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Section      5-60.   The   Service     Use   Tax    Act    is    amended    by
changing Section 9 as follows:


    (35 ILCS 110/9)
    (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-457)
    Sec. 9. Each serviceman required or authorized to collect
the tax herein imposed shall pay to the Department the amount
of such tax (except as otherwise provided) at the time when he
is required to file his return for the period during which such
tax was collected, less a discount of 2.1% prior to January 1,
1990 and 1.75% on and after January 1, 1990, or $5 per calendar
year, whichever is greater, which is allowed to reimburse the
serviceman      for   expenses       incurred    in    collecting        the   tax,
keeping records, preparing and filing returns, remitting the
tax,     and    supplying     data    to   the   Department         on   request.
Beginning with returns due on or after January 1, 2025, the
vendor's discount allowed in this Section, the Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, and the
Use Tax Act, including any local tax administered by the
Department and reported on the same return, shall not exceed
$1,000    per    month   in    the    aggregate.      When    determining      the
discount allowed under this Section, servicemen shall include
the amount of tax that would have been due at the 1% rate but
for the 0% rate imposed under Public Act 102-700. The discount
under this Section is not allowed for the 1.25% portion of
taxes paid on aviation fuel that is subject to the revenue use
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133. The
discount    allowed   under    this   Section     is    allowed    only   for
returns that are filed in the manner required by this Act. The
Department may disallow the discount for servicemen whose
certificate of registration is revoked at the time the return
is filed, but only if the Department's decision to revoke the
certificate of registration has become final. A serviceman
need not remit that part of any tax collected by him to the
extent that he is required to pay and does pay the tax imposed
by the Service Occupation Tax Act with respect to his sale of
service involving the incidental transfer by him of the same
property.
    Except as provided hereinafter in this Section, on or
before     the   twentieth    day   of   each    calendar    month,       such
serviceman shall file a return for the preceding calendar
month in accordance with reasonable Rules and Regulations to
be promulgated by the Department. Such return shall be filed
on a form prescribed by the Department and shall contain such
information as the Department may reasonably require. The
return shall include the gross receipts which were received
during     the   preceding    calendar   month     or    quarter    on    the
following items upon which tax would have been due but for the
0% rate imposed under Public Act 102-700: (i) food for human
consumption that is to be consumed off the premises where it is
sold (other than alcoholic beverages, food consisting of or
infused with adult use cannabis, soft drinks, and food that
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


has been prepared for immediate consumption); and (ii) food
prepared for immediate consumption and transferred incident to
a sale of service subject to this Act or the Service Occupation
Tax Act by an entity licensed under the Hospital Licensing
Act, the Nursing Home Care Act, the Assisted Living and Shared
Housing Act, the ID/DD Community Care Act, the MC/DD Act, the
Specialized Mental Health Rehabilitation Act of 2013, or the
Child Care Act of 1969, or an entity that holds a permit issued
pursuant to the Life Care Facilities Act. The return shall
also include the amount of tax that would have been due on the
items listed in the previous sentence but for the 0% rate
imposed under Public Act 102-700.
    In the case of leases, except as otherwise provided in
this Act, the lessor, in collecting the tax, may collect for
each tax return period only the tax applicable to that part of
the selling price actually received during such tax return
period.
    On and after January 1, 2018, with respect to servicemen
whose annual gross receipts average $20,000 or more, all
returns required to be filed pursuant to this Act shall be
filed electronically. Servicemen who demonstrate that they do
not have access to the Internet or demonstrate hardship in
filing electronically may petition the Department to waive the
electronic filing requirement.
    The   Department   may   require   returns   to   be   filed   on   a
quarterly basis. If so required, a return for each calendar
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


quarter shall be filed on or before the twentieth day of the
calendar month following the end of such calendar quarter. The
taxpayer shall also file a return with the Department for each
of the first 2 two months of each calendar quarter, on or
before the twentieth day of the following calendar month,
stating:
          1. The name of the seller;
          2. The address of the principal place of business from
    which he engages in business as a serviceman in this
    State;
          3. The total amount of taxable receipts received by
    him     during      the     preceding       calendar       month,      including
    receipts      from    charge        and     time    sales,      but    less    all
    deductions allowed by law;
          4. The amount of credit provided in Section 2d of this
    Act;
          5. The amount of tax due;
          5-5. The signature of the taxpayer; and
          6. Such other reasonable information as the Department
    may require.
    Each serviceman required or authorized to collect the tax
imposed    by    this    Act    on     aviation       fuel    transferred     as    an
incident    of   a   sale      of     service    in    this    State      during   the
preceding    calendar         month    shall,    instead       of   reporting      and
paying tax on aviation fuel as otherwise required by this
Section, report and pay such tax on a separate aviation fuel
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


tax return. The requirements related to the return shall be as
otherwise provided in this Section. Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Act to the contrary, servicemen collecting
tax on aviation fuel shall file all aviation fuel tax returns
and shall make all aviation fuel tax payments by electronic
means in the manner and form required by the Department. For
purposes of this Section, "aviation fuel" means jet fuel and
aviation gasoline.
    If a taxpayer fails to sign a return within 30 days after
the proper notice and demand for signature by the Department,
the return shall be considered valid and any amount shown to be
due on the return shall be deemed assessed.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act to the
contrary, servicemen subject to tax on cannabis shall file all
cannabis tax returns and shall make all cannabis tax payments
by electronic means in the manner and form required by the
Department.
    Beginning October 1, 1993, a taxpayer who has an average
monthly tax liability of $150,000 or more shall make all
payments required by rules of the Department by electronic
funds transfer. Beginning October 1, 1994, a taxpayer who has
an average monthly tax liability of $100,000 or more shall
make all payments required by rules of the Department by
electronic    funds   transfer.   Beginning   October   1,   1995,   a
taxpayer who has an average monthly tax liability of $50,000
or more shall make all payments required by rules of the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Department by electronic funds transfer. Beginning October 1,
2000, a taxpayer who has an annual tax liability of $200,000 or
more   shall    make    all    payments     required   by    rules    of   the
Department by electronic funds transfer. The term "annual tax
liability" shall be the sum of the taxpayer's liabilities
under this Act, and under all other State and local occupation
and use tax laws administered by the Department, for the
immediately preceding calendar year. The term "average monthly
tax liability" means the sum of the taxpayer's liabilities
under this Act, and under all other State and local occupation
and use tax laws administered by the Department, for the
immediately preceding calendar year divided by 12. Beginning
on October 1, 2002, a taxpayer who has a tax liability in the
amount set forth in subsection (b) of Section 2505-210 of the
Department of Revenue Law shall make all payments required by
rules of the Department by electronic funds transfer.
    Before     August   1     of   each   year   beginning   in   1993,    the
Department     shall    notify      all   taxpayers    required      to    make
payments by electronic funds transfer. All taxpayers required
to make payments by electronic funds transfer shall make those
payments for a minimum of one year beginning on October 1.
    Any taxpayer not required to make payments by electronic
funds transfer may make payments by electronic funds transfer
with the permission of the Department.
    All taxpayers required to make payment by electronic funds
transfer and any taxpayers authorized to voluntarily make
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


payments     by   electronic   funds        transfer    shall   make   those
payments in the manner authorized by the Department.
    The Department shall adopt such rules as are necessary to
effectuate a program of electronic funds transfer and the
requirements of this Section.
    If the serviceman is otherwise required to file a monthly
return and if the serviceman's average monthly tax liability
to the Department does not exceed $200, the Department may
authorize his returns to be filed on a quarter annual basis,
with the return for January, February, and March of a given
year being due by April 20 of such year; with the return for
April, May, and June of a given year being due by July 20 of
such year; with the return for July, August, and September of a
given year being due by October 20 of such year, and with the
return for October, November, and December of a given year
being due by January 20 of the following year.
    If the serviceman is otherwise required to file a monthly
or quarterly return and if the serviceman's average monthly
tax liability to the Department does not exceed $50, the
Department may authorize his returns to be filed on an annual
basis, with the return for a given year being due by January 20
of the following year.
    Such quarter annual and annual returns, as to form and
substance,    shall   be   subject     to    the    same   requirements   as
monthly returns.
    Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act concerning
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the time within which a serviceman may file his return, in the
case of any serviceman who ceases to engage in a kind of
business which makes him responsible for filing returns under
this Act, such serviceman shall file a final return under this
Act    with   the   Department    not    more      than   one    month    after
discontinuing such business.
      Where a serviceman collects the tax with respect to the
selling price of property which he sells and the purchaser
thereafter returns such property and the serviceman refunds
the selling price thereof to the purchaser, such serviceman
shall also refund, to the purchaser, the tax so collected from
the purchaser. When filing his return for the period in which
he refunds such tax to the purchaser, the serviceman may
deduct the amount of the tax so refunded by him to the
purchaser from any other Service Use Tax, Service Occupation
Tax,    retailers'    occupation       tax,   or    use    tax   which        such
serviceman may be required to pay or remit to the Department,
as shown by such return, provided that the amount of the tax to
be    deducted   shall   previously      have      been   remitted       to   the
Department by such serviceman. If the serviceman shall not
previously    have   remitted     the    amount     of    such   tax     to   the
Department, he shall be entitled to no deduction hereunder
upon refunding such tax to the purchaser.
      Any   serviceman   filing    a    return     hereunder      shall       also
include the total tax upon the selling price of tangible
personal property purchased for use by him as an incident to a
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


sale of service, and such serviceman shall remit the amount of
such tax to the Department when filing such return.
    If experience indicates such action to be practicable, the
Department may prescribe and furnish a combination or joint
return which will enable servicemen, who are required to file
returns hereunder and also under the Service Occupation Tax
Act, to furnish all the return information required by both
Acts on the one form.
    Where the serviceman has more than one business registered
with the Department under separate registration hereunder,
such serviceman shall not file each return that is due as a
single return covering all such registered businesses, but
shall file separate returns for each such registered business.
    Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund, a special
fund in the State treasury, the net revenue realized for the
preceding month from the 1% tax imposed under this Act.
    Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund 20% of the
net revenue realized for the preceding month from the 6.25%
general rate on transfers of tangible personal property, other
than (i) tangible personal property which is purchased outside
Illinois at retail from a retailer and which is titled or
registered by an agency of this State's government and (ii)
aviation   fuel   sold   on   or   after   December   1,   2019.   This
exception for aviation fuel only applies for so long as the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C.
47133 are binding on the State.
      For aviation fuel sold on or after December 1, 2019, each
month the Department shall pay into the State Aviation Program
Fund 20% of the net revenue realized for the preceding month
from the 6.25% general rate on the selling price of aviation
fuel,    less   an     amount    estimated        by   the   Department    to    be
required for refunds of the 20% portion of the tax on aviation
fuel under this Act, which amount shall be deposited into the
Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund. The Department shall only
pay   moneys    into    the     State    Aviation       Program   Fund   and    the
Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund under this Act for so long
as the revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49
U.S.C. 47133 are binding on the State.
      Beginning August 1, 2000, each month the Department shall
pay into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund 100% of the
net revenue realized for the preceding month from the 1.25%
rate on the selling price of motor fuel and gasohol.
      Beginning October 1, 2009 and through June 30, 2026, each
month the Department shall pay into the Capital Projects Fund
an    amount    that    is    equal     to   an   amount     estimated    by    the
Department to represent 80% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the sale of candy, grooming and
hygiene products, and soft drinks that had been taxed at a rate
of 1% prior to September 1, 2009, but that are now taxed at
6.25%.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Beginning July 1, 2013, each month the Department shall
pay into the Underground Storage Tank Fund from the proceeds
collected   under   this   Act,   the   Use   Tax   Act,   the   Service
Occupation Tax Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act an
amount equal to the average monthly deficit in the Underground
Storage Tank Fund during the prior year, as certified annually
by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, but the total
payment into the Underground Storage Tank Fund under this Act,
the Use Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, and the
Retailers' Occupation Tax Act shall not exceed $18,000,000 in
any State fiscal year. As used in this paragraph, the "average
monthly deficit" shall be equal to the difference between the
average monthly claims for payment by the fund and the average
monthly revenues deposited into the fund, excluding payments
made pursuant to this paragraph.
    Beginning July 1, 2015, of the remainder of the moneys
received by the Department under the Use Tax Act, this Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act, each month the Department shall deposit $500,000 into the
State Crime Laboratory Fund.
    Of the remainder of the moneys received by the Department
pursuant to this Act, (a) 1.75% thereof shall be paid into the
Build Illinois Fund and (b) prior to July 1, 1989, 2.2% and on
and after July 1, 1989, 3.8% thereof shall be paid into the
Build Illinois Fund; provided, however, that if in any fiscal
year the sum of (1) the aggregate of 2.2% or 3.8%, as the case
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


may be, of the moneys received by the Department and required
to be paid into the Build Illinois Fund pursuant to Section 3
of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, Section 9 of the Use Tax
Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, and Section 9 of the
Service Occupation Tax Act, such Acts being hereinafter called
the "Tax Acts" and such aggregate of 2.2% or 3.8%, as the case
may   be,   of   moneys   being   hereinafter   called   the    "Tax   Act
Amount", and (2) the amount transferred to the Build Illinois
Fund from the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund shall be
less than the Annual Specified Amount (as defined in Section 3
of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act), an amount equal to the
difference shall be immediately paid into the Build Illinois
Fund from other moneys received by the Department pursuant to
the Tax Acts; and further provided, that if on the last
business day of any month the sum of (1) the Tax Act Amount
required to be deposited into the Build Illinois Bond Account
in the Build Illinois Fund during such month and (2) the amount
transferred during such month to the Build Illinois Fund from
the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund shall have been less
than 1/12 of the Annual Specified Amount, an amount equal to
the   difference    shall   be    immediately   paid   into    the   Build
Illinois Fund from other moneys received by the Department
pursuant to the Tax Acts; and, further provided, that in no
event shall the payments required under the preceding proviso
result in aggregate payments into the Build Illinois Fund
pursuant to this clause (b) for any fiscal year in excess of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the greater of (i) the Tax Act Amount or (ii) the Annual
Specified Amount for such fiscal year; and, further provided,
that the amounts payable into the Build Illinois Fund under
this clause (b) shall be payable only until such time as the
aggregate     amount     on    deposit       under    each     trust      indenture
securing Bonds issued and outstanding pursuant to the Build
Illinois Bond Act is sufficient, taking into account any
future investment income, to fully provide, in accordance with
such indenture, for the defeasance of or the payment of the
principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds
secured by such indenture and on any Bonds expected to be
issued thereafter and all fees and costs payable with respect
thereto, all as certified by the Director of the Bureau of the
Budget (now Governor's Office of Management and Budget). If on
the   last    business    day    of    any    month       in   which      Bonds    are
outstanding pursuant to the Build Illinois Bond Act, the
aggregate of the moneys deposited into in the Build Illinois
Bond Account in the Build Illinois Fund in such month shall be
less than the amount required to be transferred in such month
from the Build Illinois Bond Account to the Build Illinois
Bond Retirement and Interest Fund pursuant to Section 13 of
the   Build    Illinois       Bond    Act,    an     amount       equal     to    such
deficiency     shall     be    immediately         paid    from     other        moneys
received by the Department pursuant to the Tax Acts to the
Build Illinois Fund; provided, however, that any amounts paid
to the Build Illinois Fund in any fiscal year pursuant to this
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


sentence shall be deemed to constitute payments pursuant to
clause (b) of the preceding sentence and shall reduce the
amount otherwise payable for such fiscal year pursuant to
clause (b) of the preceding sentence. The moneys received by
the   Department   pursuant   to    this   Act   and   required    to   be
deposited into the Build Illinois Fund are subject to the
pledge, claim and charge set forth in Section 12 of the Build
Illinois Bond Act.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois Fund
as provided in the preceding paragraph or in any amendment
thereto hereafter enacted, the following specified monthly
installment of the amount requested in the certificate of the
Chairman of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
provided under Section 8.25f of the State Finance Act, but not
in excess of the sums designated as "Total Deposit", shall be
deposited in the aggregate from collections under Section 9 of
the Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, Section
9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, and Section 3 of the
Retailers'    Occupation    Tax    Act   into    the   McCormick   Place
Expansion Project Fund in the specified fiscal years.


              Fiscal Year                                 Total Deposit
                   1993                                                 $0
                   1994                                     53,000,000
                   1995                                     58,000,000
                   1996                                     61,000,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


                  1997                64,000,000
                  1998                68,000,000
                  1999                71,000,000
                  2000                75,000,000
                  2001                80,000,000
                  2002                93,000,000
                  2003                99,000,000
                  2004               103,000,000
                  2005               108,000,000
                  2006               113,000,000
                  2007               119,000,000
                  2008               126,000,000
                  2009               132,000,000
                  2010               139,000,000
                  2011               146,000,000
                  2012               153,000,000
                  2013               161,000,000
                  2014               170,000,000
                  2015               179,000,000
                  2016               189,000,000
                  2017               199,000,000
                  2018               210,000,000
                  2019               221,000,000
                  2020               233,000,000
                  2021               300,000,000
                  2022               300,000,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


                  2023                           300,000,000
                  2024                           300,000,000
                  2025                           300,000,000
                  2026                           300,000,000
                  2027                           375,000,000
                  2028                           375,000,000
                  2029                           375,000,000
                  2030                           375,000,000
                  2031                           375,000,000
                  2032                           375,000,000
                  2033                           375,000,000
                  2034                           375,000,000
                  2035                           375,000,000
                  2036                           450,000,000
                  and
          each fiscal year
       thereafter that bonds
       are outstanding under
        Section 13.2 of the
       Metropolitan Pier and
     Exposition Authority Act,
  but not after fiscal year 2060.
    Beginning July 20, 1993 and in each month of each fiscal
year thereafter, one-eighth of the amount requested in the
certificate of the Chairman of the Metropolitan Pier and
Exposition Authority for that fiscal year, less the amount
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


deposited into the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund by
the State Treasurer in the respective month under subsection
(g) of Section 13 of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition
Authority Act, plus cumulative deficiencies in the deposits
required under this Section for previous months and years,
shall be deposited into the McCormick Place Expansion Project
Fund, until the full amount requested for the fiscal year, but
not   in    excess    of     the    amount      specified    above    as   "Total
Deposit", has been deposited.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Capital Projects
Fund, the Clean Air Act Permit Fund, the Build Illinois Fund,
and the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund pursuant to the
preceding paragraphs or in any amendments thereto hereafter
enacted, for aviation fuel sold on or after December 1, 2019,
the Department shall each month deposit into the Aviation Fuel
Sales Tax Refund Fund an amount estimated by the Department to
be required for refunds of the 80% portion of the tax on
aviation     fuel    under    this       Act.   The    Department    shall    only
deposit moneys into the Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund
under      this   paragraph        for    so    long    as   the    revenue   use
requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133 are
binding on the State.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois Fund
and the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund pursuant to the
preceding paragraphs or in any amendments thereto hereafter
enacted, beginning July 1, 1993 and ending on September 30,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


2013, the Department shall each month pay into the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund 0.27% of 80% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate on the selling
price of tangible personal property.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois
Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund, pursuant to the preceding paragraphs or in
any amendments to this Section hereafter enacted, beginning on
the first day of the first calendar month to occur on or after
August 26, 2014 (the effective date of Public Act 98-1098),
each month, from the collections made under Section 9 of the
Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, Section 9 of
the    Service   Occupation    Tax   Act,   and   Section      3    of    the
Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, the Department shall pay into
the   Tax   Compliance   and   Administration     Fund,   to       be    used,
subject to appropriation, to fund additional auditors and
compliance personnel at the Department of Revenue, an amount
equal to 1/12 of 5% of 80% of the cash receipts collected
during the preceding fiscal year by the Audit Bureau of the
Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act,
and associated local occupation and use taxes administered by
the Department.
      Subject to payments of amounts into the Build Illinois
Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax Compliance and Administration
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Fund as provided in this Section, beginning on July 1, 2018 the
Department shall pay each month into the Downstate Public
Transportation Fund the moneys required to be so paid under
Section 2-3 of the Downstate Public Transportation Act.
      Subject      to      successful     execution            and    delivery     of    a
public-private agreement between the public agency and private
entity and completion of the civic build, beginning on July 1,
2023,    of     the     remainder    of      the     moneys          received    by     the
Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and this Act, the Department shall
deposit the following specified deposits in the aggregate from
collections under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act, as required under Section 8.25g of the State Finance Act
for      distribution          consistent          with        the      Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
The moneys received by the Department pursuant to this Act and
required      to      be    deposited       into     the       Civic     and     Transit
Infrastructure Fund are subject to the pledge, claim, and
charge    set      forth     in   Section    25-55        of    the     Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
As used in this paragraph, "civic build", "private entity",
"public-private            agreement",    and      "public       agency"        have    the
meanings      provided       in   Section    25-10        of    the     Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
          Fiscal Year ............................                       Total Deposit
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        2024 .................................... $200,000,000
        2025 .................................... $206,000,000
        2026 .................................... $212,200,000
        2027 .................................... $218,500,000
        2028 .................................... $225,100,000
        2029 .................................... $288,700,000
        2030 .................................... $298,900,000
        2031 .................................... $309,300,000
        2032 .................................... $320,100,000
        2033 .................................... $331,200,000
        2034 .................................... $341,200,000
        2035 .................................... $351,400,000
        2036 .................................... $361,900,000
        2037 .................................... $372,800,000
        2038 .................................... $384,000,000
        2039 .................................... $395,500,000
        2040 .................................... $407,400,000
        2041 .................................... $419,600,000
        2042 .................................... $432,200,000
        2043 .................................... $445,100,000
    Beginning July 1, 2021 and until July 1, 2022, subject to
the payment of amounts into the State and Local Sales Tax
Reform Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place
Expansion Project Fund, the Energy Infrastructure Fund, and
the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund as provided in this
Section, the Department shall pay each month into the Road
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Fund the amount estimated to represent 16% of the net revenue
realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol.
Beginning July 1, 2022 and until July 1, 2023, subject to the
payment of amounts into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform
Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion
Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax
Compliance   and   Administration   Fund    as   provided   in   this
Section, the Department shall pay each month into the Road
Fund the amount estimated to represent 32% of the net revenue
realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol.
Beginning July 1, 2023 and until July 1, 2024, subject to the
payment of amounts into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform
Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion
Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax
Compliance   and   Administration   Fund    as   provided   in   this
Section, the Department shall pay each month into the Road
Fund the amount estimated to represent 48% of the net revenue
realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol.
Beginning July 1, 2024 and until July 1, 2026, subject to the
payment of amounts into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform
Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion
Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax
Compliance   and   Administration   Fund    as   provided   in   this
Section, the Department shall pay each month into the Road
Fund the amount estimated to represent 64% of the net revenue
realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Beginning on July 1, 2026, subject to the payment of amounts
into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund, the Build
Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the
Illinois      Tax   Increment       Fund,    and    the   Tax    Compliance    and
Administration        Fund     as    provided        in   this    Section,     the
Department shall pay each month into the Road Fund the amount
estimated to represent 80% of the net revenue realized from
the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol. As used in this
paragraph "motor fuel" has the meaning given to that term in
Section 1.1 of the Motor Fuel Tax Law, and "gasohol" has the
meaning given to that term in Section 3-40 of the Use Tax Act.
      Until   July    1,     2025,   of     the    remainder     of   the   moneys
received by the Department pursuant to this Act, 75% thereof
shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the State
treasury and 25% shall be reserved in a special account and
used only for the transfer to the Common School Fund as part of
the    monthly      transfer    from      the      General   Revenue    Fund    in
accordance with Section 8a of the State Finance Act. Beginning
July 1, 2025, of the remainder of the moneys received by the
Department pursuant to this Act, 75% shall be deposited into
the General Revenue Fund and 25% shall be deposited into the
Common School Fund.
      As soon as possible after the first day of each month, upon
certification of the Department of Revenue, the Comptroller
shall order transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer from
the General Revenue Fund to the Motor Fuel Tax Fund an amount
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


equal to 1.7% of 80% of the net revenue realized under this Act
for the second preceding month. Beginning April 1, 2000, this
transfer is no longer required and shall not be made.
    Net revenue realized for a month shall be the revenue
collected by the State pursuant to this Act, less the amount
paid   out   during    that   month     as   refunds   to    taxpayers    for
overpayment of liability.
(Source: P.A. 103-363, eff. 7-28-23; 103-592, Article 75,
Section 75-10, eff. 1-1-25; 103-592, Article 110, Section
110-10, eff. 6-7-24; 104-6, Article 5, Section 5-15, eff.
6-16-25;     104-6,   Article     35,   Section     35-25,   eff.   6-16-25;
104-417, eff. 8-15-25; revised 9-10-25.)


    (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-457)
    Sec. 9. Each serviceman required or authorized to collect
the tax herein imposed shall pay to the Department the amount
of such tax (except as otherwise provided) at the time when he
is required to file his return for the period during which such
tax was collected, less a discount of 2.1% prior to January 1,
1990 and 1.75% on and after January 1, 1990, or $5 per calendar
year, whichever is greater, which is allowed to reimburse the
serviceman     for    expenses    incurred     in   collecting      the   tax,
keeping records, preparing and filing returns, remitting the
tax,   and    supplying    data    to    the   Department     on    request.
Beginning with returns due on or after January 1, 2025, the
vendor's discount allowed in this Section, the Retailers'
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Occupation Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, and the
Use Tax Act, including any local tax administered by the
Department and reported on the same return, shall not exceed
$1,000   per     month   in   the      aggregate.    When    determining     the
discount allowed under this Section, servicemen shall include
the amount of tax that would have been due at the 1% rate but
for the 0% rate imposed under Public Act 102-700. The discount
under this Section is not allowed for the 1.25% portion of
taxes paid on aviation fuel that is subject to the revenue use
requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133. The
discount    allowed      under    this    Section     is    allowed   only   for
returns that are filed in the manner required by this Act. The
Department may disallow the discount for servicemen whose
certificate of registration is revoked at the time the return
is filed, but only if the Department's decision to revoke the
certificate of registration has become final. A serviceman
need not remit that part of any tax collected by him to the
extent that he is required to pay and does pay the tax imposed
by the Service Occupation Tax Act with respect to his sale of
service involving the incidental transfer by him of the same
property.
    Except as provided hereinafter in this Section, on or
before     the   twentieth       day    of   each    calendar    month,      such
serviceman shall file a return for the preceding calendar
month in accordance with reasonable Rules and Regulations to
be promulgated by the Department. Such return shall be filed
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


on a form prescribed by the Department and shall contain such
information as the Department may reasonably require. The
return shall include the gross receipts which were received
during    the   preceding   calendar   month   or   quarter   on   the
following items upon which tax would have been due but for the
0% rate imposed under Public Act 102-700: (i) food for human
consumption that is to be consumed off the premises where it is
sold (other than alcoholic beverages, food consisting of or
infused with adult use cannabis, soft drinks, and food that
has been prepared for immediate consumption); and (ii) food
prepared for immediate consumption and transferred incident to
a sale of service subject to this Act or the Service Occupation
Tax Act by an entity licensed under the Hospital Licensing
Act, the Nursing Home Care Act, the Assisted Living and Shared
Housing Act, the ID/DD Community Care Act, the MC/DD Act, the
Specialized Mental Health Rehabilitation Act of 2013, or the
Child Care Act of 1969, or an entity that holds a permit issued
pursuant to the Life Care Facilities Act. The return shall
also include the amount of tax that would have been due on the
items listed in the previous sentence but for the 0% rate
imposed under Public Act 102-700.
    In the case of leases, except as otherwise provided in
this Act, the lessor, in collecting the tax, may collect for
each tax return period only the tax applicable to that part of
the selling price actually received during such tax return
period.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    On and after January 1, 2018, with respect to servicemen
whose annual gross receipts average $20,000 or more, all
returns required to be filed pursuant to this Act shall be
filed electronically. Servicemen who demonstrate that they do
not have access to the Internet or demonstrate hardship in
filing electronically may petition the Department to waive the
electronic filing requirement.
    The    Department   may   require   returns    to    be   filed    on   a
quarterly basis. If so required, a return for each calendar
quarter shall be filed on or before the twentieth day of the
calendar month following the end of such calendar quarter. The
taxpayer shall also file a return with the Department for each
of the first 2 two months of each calendar quarter, on or
before the twentieth day of the following calendar month,
stating:
          1. The name of the seller;
          2. The address of the principal place of business from
    which he engages in business as a serviceman in this
    State;
          3. The total amount of taxable receipts received by
    him    during   the   preceding     calendar     month,     including
    receipts    from    charge   and    time    sales,    but   less    all
    deductions allowed by law;
          4. The amount of credit provided in Section 2d of this
    Act;
          5. The amount of tax due;
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


          5-5. The signature of the taxpayer; and
          6. Such other reasonable information as the Department
    may require.
    Each serviceman required or authorized to collect the tax
imposed    by    this   Act    on    aviation      fuel    transferred   as    an
incident    of   a   sale     of    service   in    this    State   during    the
preceding    calendar       month    shall,   instead       of   reporting    and
paying tax on aviation fuel as otherwise required by this
Section, report and pay such tax on a separate aviation fuel
tax return. The requirements related to the return shall be as
otherwise provided in this Section. Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Act to the contrary, servicemen collecting
tax on aviation fuel shall file all aviation fuel tax returns
and shall make all aviation fuel tax payments by electronic
means in the manner and form required by the Department. For
purposes of this Section, "aviation fuel" means jet fuel and
aviation gasoline.
    If a taxpayer fails to sign a return within 30 days after
the proper notice and demand for signature by the Department,
the return shall be considered valid and any amount shown to be
due on the return shall be deemed assessed.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act to the
contrary, servicemen subject to tax on cannabis shall file all
cannabis tax returns and shall make all cannabis tax payments
by electronic means in the manner and form required by the
Department.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Beginning October 1, 1993, a taxpayer who has an average
monthly tax liability of $150,000 or more shall make all
payments required by rules of the Department by electronic
funds transfer. Beginning October 1, 1994, a taxpayer who has
an average monthly tax liability of $100,000 or more shall
make all payments required by rules of the Department by
electronic     funds    transfer.     Beginning     October    1,    1995,   a
taxpayer who has an average monthly tax liability of $50,000
or more shall make all payments required by rules of the
Department by electronic funds transfer. Beginning October 1,
2000, a taxpayer who has an annual tax liability of $200,000 or
more   shall    make    all    payments     required   by    rules    of    the
Department by electronic funds transfer. The term "annual tax
liability" shall be the sum of the taxpayer's liabilities
under this Act, and under all other State and local occupation
and use tax laws administered by the Department, for the
immediately preceding calendar year. The term "average monthly
tax liability" means the sum of the taxpayer's liabilities
under this Act, and under all other State and local occupation
and use tax laws administered by the Department, for the
immediately preceding calendar year divided by 12. Beginning
on October 1, 2002, a taxpayer who has a tax liability in the
amount set forth in subsection (b) of Section 2505-210 of the
Department of Revenue Law shall make all payments required by
rules of the Department by electronic funds transfer.
    Before     August   1     of   each   year   beginning    in    1993,   the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Department    shall    notify    all    taxpayers   required   to    make
payments by electronic funds transfer. All taxpayers required
to make payments by electronic funds transfer shall make those
payments for a minimum of one year beginning on October 1.
    Any taxpayer not required to make payments by electronic
funds transfer may make payments by electronic funds transfer
with the permission of the Department.
    All taxpayers required to make payment by electronic funds
transfer and any taxpayers authorized to voluntarily make
payments     by   electronic    funds   transfer    shall   make    those
payments in the manner authorized by the Department.
    The Department shall adopt such rules as are necessary to
effectuate a program of electronic funds transfer and the
requirements of this Section.
    If the serviceman is otherwise required to file a monthly
return and if the serviceman's average monthly tax liability
to the Department does not exceed $200, the Department may
authorize his returns to be filed on a quarter annual basis,
with the return for January, February, and March of a given
year being due by April 20 of such year; with the return for
April, May, and June of a given year being due by July 20 of
such year; with the return for July, August, and September of a
given year being due by October 20 of such year, and with the
return for October, November, and December of a given year
being due by January 20 of the following year.
    If the serviceman is otherwise required to file a monthly
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


or quarterly return and if the serviceman's average monthly
tax liability to the Department does not exceed $50, the
Department may authorize his returns to be filed on an annual
basis, with the return for a given year being due by January 20
of the following year.
      Such quarter annual and annual returns, as to form and
substance,    shall   be   subject     to   the    same    requirements    as
monthly returns.
      Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act concerning
the time within which a serviceman may file his return, in the
case of any serviceman who ceases to engage in a kind of
business which makes him responsible for filing returns under
this Act, such serviceman shall file a final return under this
Act    with   the   Department   not    more      than    one   month   after
discontinuing such business.
      Where a serviceman collects the tax with respect to the
selling price of property which he sells and the purchaser
thereafter returns such property and the serviceman refunds
the selling price thereof to the purchaser, such serviceman
shall also refund, to the purchaser, the tax so collected from
the purchaser. When filing his return for the period in which
he refunds such tax to the purchaser, the serviceman may
deduct the amount of the tax so refunded by him to the
purchaser from any other Service Use Tax, Service Occupation
Tax,    retailers'    occupation     tax,    or     use   tax   which    such
serviceman may be required to pay or remit to the Department,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


as shown by such return, provided that the amount of the tax to
be   deducted   shall   previously      have    been   remitted     to   the
Department by such serviceman. If the serviceman shall not
previously   have   remitted     the   amount     of   such   tax   to   the
Department, he shall be entitled to no deduction hereunder
upon refunding such tax to the purchaser.
     Any   serviceman   filing    a    return    hereunder    shall      also
include the total tax upon the selling price of tangible
personal property purchased for use by him as an incident to a
sale of service, and such serviceman shall remit the amount of
such tax to the Department when filing such return.
     If experience indicates such action to be practicable, the
Department may prescribe and furnish a combination or joint
return which will enable servicemen, who are required to file
returns hereunder and also under the Service Occupation Tax
Act, to furnish all the return information required by both
Acts on the one form.
     Where the serviceman has more than one business registered
with the Department under separate registration hereunder,
such serviceman shall not file each return that is due as a
single return covering all such registered businesses, but
shall file separate returns for each such registered business.
     Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the State and Local Tax Reform Fund, a special fund in
the State treasury, the net revenue realized for the preceding
month from the 1% tax imposed under this Act.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund 20% of the
net revenue realized for the preceding month from the 6.25%
general rate on transfers of tangible personal property, other
than (i) tangible personal property which is purchased outside
Illinois at retail from a retailer and which is titled or
registered by an agency of this State's government and (ii)
aviation    fuel    sold     on    or   after    December       1,   2019.    This
exception for aviation fuel only applies for so long as the
revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C.
47133 are binding on the State.
      For aviation fuel sold on or after December 1, 2019, each
month the Department shall pay into the State Aviation Program
Fund 20% of the net revenue realized for the preceding month
from the 6.25% general rate on the selling price of aviation
fuel,   less   an     amount      estimated     by   the   Department        to    be
required for refunds of the 20% portion of the tax on aviation
fuel under this Act, which amount shall be deposited into the
Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund. The Department shall only
pay   moneys   into    the     State    Aviation      Program    Fund   and       the
Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund under this Act for so long
as the revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49
U.S.C. 47133 are binding on the State.
      Beginning August 1, 2000, each month the Department shall
pay into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund 100% of the
net revenue realized for the preceding month from the 1.25%
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


rate on the selling price of motor fuel and gasohol.
     Beginning October 1, 2009 and through June 30, 2026, each
month the Department shall pay into the Capital Projects Fund
an   amount   that    is   equal    to   an    amount     estimated    by   the
Department to represent 80% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the sale of candy, grooming and
hygiene products, and soft drinks that had been taxed at a rate
of 1% prior to September 1, 2009, but that are now taxed at
6.25%.
     Beginning July 1, 2013, each month the Department shall
pay into the Underground Storage Tank Fund from the proceeds
collected     under   this   Act,    the      Use   Tax   Act,   the   Service
Occupation Tax Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act an
amount equal to the average monthly deficit in the Underground
Storage Tank Fund during the prior year, as certified annually
by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, but the total
payment into the Underground Storage Tank Fund under this Act,
the Use Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, and the
Retailers' Occupation Tax Act shall not exceed $18,000,000 in
any State fiscal year. As used in this paragraph, the "average
monthly deficit" shall be equal to the difference between the
average monthly claims for payment by the fund and the average
monthly revenues deposited into the fund, excluding payments
made pursuant to this paragraph.
     Beginning July 1, 2015, of the remainder of the moneys
received by the Department under the Use Tax Act, this Act, the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act, each month the Department shall deposit $500,000 into the
State Crime Laboratory Fund.
      Of the remainder of the moneys received by the Department
pursuant to this Act, (a) 1.75% thereof shall be paid into the
Build Illinois Fund and (b) prior to July 1, 1989, 2.2% and on
and after July 1, 1989, 3.8% thereof shall be paid into the
Build Illinois Fund; provided, however, that if in any fiscal
year the sum of (1) the aggregate of 2.2% or 3.8%, as the case
may be, of the moneys received by the Department and required
to be paid into the Build Illinois Fund pursuant to Section 3
of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, Section 9 of the Use Tax
Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, and Section 9 of the
Service Occupation Tax Act, such Acts being hereinafter called
the "Tax Acts" and such aggregate of 2.2% or 3.8%, as the case
may   be,   of   moneys   being   hereinafter   called   the   "Tax   Act
Amount", and (2) the amount transferred to the Build Illinois
Fund from the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund shall be
less than the Annual Specified Amount (as defined in Section 3
of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act), an amount equal to the
difference shall be immediately paid into the Build Illinois
Fund from other moneys received by the Department pursuant to
the Tax Acts; and further provided, that if on the last
business day of any month the sum of (1) the Tax Act Amount
required to be deposited into the Build Illinois Bond Account
in the Build Illinois Fund during such month and (2) the amount
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


transferred during such month to the Build Illinois Fund from
the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund shall have been less
than 1/12 of the Annual Specified Amount, an amount equal to
the   difference   shall     be   immediately       paid    into   the   Build
Illinois Fund from other moneys received by the Department
pursuant to the Tax Acts; and, further provided, that in no
event shall the payments required under the preceding proviso
result in aggregate payments into the Build Illinois Fund
pursuant to this clause (b) for any fiscal year in excess of
the greater of (i) the Tax Act Amount or (ii) the Annual
Specified Amount for such fiscal year; and, further provided,
that the amounts payable into the Build Illinois Fund under
this clause (b) shall be payable only until such time as the
aggregate    amount     on   deposit      under    each    trust   indenture
securing Bonds issued and outstanding pursuant to the Build
Illinois Bond Act is sufficient, taking into account any
future investment income, to fully provide, in accordance with
such indenture, for the defeasance of or the payment of the
principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds
secured by such indenture and on any Bonds expected to be
issued thereafter and all fees and costs payable with respect
thereto, all as certified by the Director of the Bureau of the
Budget (now Governor's Office of Management and Budget). If on
the   last   business    day   of   any    month    in     which   Bonds   are
outstanding pursuant to the Build Illinois Bond Act, the
aggregate of the moneys deposited into in the Build Illinois
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Bond Account in the Build Illinois Fund in such month shall be
less than the amount required to be transferred in such month
from the Build Illinois Bond Account to the Build Illinois
Bond Retirement and Interest Fund pursuant to Section 13 of
the    Build   Illinois     Bond    Act,   an     amount       equal     to    such
deficiency     shall   be    immediately        paid    from     other        moneys
received by the Department pursuant to the Tax Acts to the
Build Illinois Fund; provided, however, that any amounts paid
to the Build Illinois Fund in any fiscal year pursuant to this
sentence shall be deemed to constitute payments pursuant to
clause (b) of the preceding sentence and shall reduce the
amount otherwise payable for such fiscal year pursuant to
clause (b) of the preceding sentence. The moneys received by
the   Department   pursuant        to   this   Act     and   required         to   be
deposited into the Build Illinois Fund are subject to the
pledge, claim and charge set forth in Section 12 of the Build
Illinois Bond Act.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois Fund
as provided in the preceding paragraph or in any amendment
thereto hereafter enacted, the following specified monthly
installment of the amount requested in the certificate of the
Chairman of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
provided under Section 8.25f of the State Finance Act, but not
in excess of the sums designated as "Total Deposit", shall be
deposited in the aggregate from collections under Section 9 of
the Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, Section
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, and Section 3 of the
Retailers'   Occupation    Tax   Act   into   the   McCormick   Place
Expansion Project Fund in the specified fiscal years.


             Fiscal Year                               Total Deposit
                  1993                                            $0
                  1994                                   53,000,000
                  1995                                   58,000,000
                  1996                                   61,000,000
                  1997                                   64,000,000
                  1998                                   68,000,000
                  1999                                   71,000,000
                  2000                                   75,000,000
                  2001                                   80,000,000
                  2002                                   93,000,000
                  2003                                   99,000,000
                  2004                                  103,000,000
                  2005                                  108,000,000
                  2006                                  113,000,000
                  2007                                  119,000,000
                  2008                                  126,000,000
                  2009                                  132,000,000
                  2010                                  139,000,000
                  2011                                  146,000,000
                  2012                                  153,000,000
                  2013                                  161,000,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


                  2014                     170,000,000
                  2015                     179,000,000
                  2016                     189,000,000
                  2017                     199,000,000
                  2018                     210,000,000
                  2019                     221,000,000
                  2020                     233,000,000
                  2021                     300,000,000
                  2022                     300,000,000
                  2023                     300,000,000
                  2024                     300,000,000
                  2025                     300,000,000
                  2026                     300,000,000
                  2027                     375,000,000
                  2028                     375,000,000
                  2029                     375,000,000
                  2030                     375,000,000
                  2031                     375,000,000
                  2032                     375,000,000
                  2033                     375,000,000
                  2034                     375,000,000
                  2035                     375,000,000
                  2036                     450,000,000
                  and
          each fiscal year
       thereafter that bonds
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


           are outstanding under
            Section 13.2 of the
           Metropolitan Pier and
       Exposition Authority Act,
  but not after fiscal year 2060.
      Beginning July 20, 1993 and in each month of each fiscal
year thereafter, one-eighth of the amount requested in the
certificate of the Chairman of the Metropolitan Pier and
Exposition Authority for that fiscal year, less the amount
deposited into the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund by
the State Treasurer in the respective month under subsection
(g) of Section 13 of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition
Authority Act, plus cumulative deficiencies in the deposits
required under this Section for previous months and years,
shall be deposited into the McCormick Place Expansion Project
Fund, until the full amount requested for the fiscal year, but
not   in    excess   of   the   amount   specified   above   as   "Total
Deposit", has been deposited.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Capital Projects
Fund, the Clean Air Act Permit Fund, the Build Illinois Fund,
and the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund pursuant to the
preceding paragraphs or in any amendments thereto hereafter
enacted, for aviation fuel sold on or after December 1, 2019,
the Department shall each month deposit into the Aviation Fuel
Sales Tax Refund Fund an amount estimated by the Department to
be required for refunds of the 80% portion of the tax on
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


aviation    fuel    under     this      Act.   The    Department      shall         only
deposit moneys into the Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund
under     this    paragraph       for    so    long    as     the   revenue         use
requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133 are
binding on the State.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois Fund
and the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund pursuant to the
preceding paragraphs or in any amendments thereto hereafter
enacted, beginning July 1, 1993 and ending on September 30,
2013, the Department shall each month pay into the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund 0.27% of 80% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate on the selling
price of tangible personal property.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois
Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund, pursuant to the preceding paragraphs or in
any amendments to this Section hereafter enacted, beginning on
the first day of the first calendar month to occur on or after
August 26, 2014 (the effective date of Public Act 98-1098),
each month, from the collections made under Section 9 of the
Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, Section 9 of
the     Service    Occupation      Tax    Act,       and    Section      3    of    the
Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, the Department shall pay into
the   Tax   Compliance      and    Administration           Fund,   to       be    used,
subject to appropriation, to fund additional auditors and
compliance personnel at the Department of Revenue, an amount
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


equal to 1/12 of 5% of 80% of the cash receipts collected
during the preceding fiscal year by the Audit Bureau of the
Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act,
and associated local occupation and use taxes administered by
the Department.
      Subject to payments of amounts into the Build Illinois
Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax Compliance and Administration
Fund as provided in this Section, beginning on July 1, 2018 the
Department shall pay each month into the Downstate Public
Transportation Fund the moneys required to be so paid under
Section 2-3 of the Downstate Public Transportation Act.
      Subject     to    successful      execution     and    delivery    of    a
public-private agreement between the public agency and private
entity and completion of the civic build, beginning on July 1,
2023,    of     the    remainder   of    the     moneys     received    by    the
Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and this Act, the Department shall
deposit the following specified deposits in the aggregate from
collections under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act, as required under Section 8.25g of the State Finance Act
for     distribution        consistent         with   the      Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
The moneys received by the Department pursuant to this Act and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


required   to     be    deposited       into    the      Civic    and    Transit
Infrastructure Fund are subject to the pledge, claim, and
charge   set    forth    in   Section    25-55     of    the     Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
As used in this paragraph, "civic build", "private entity",
"public-private        agreement",   and       "public    agency"       have   the
meanings   provided      in   Section    25-10     of    the     Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
         Fiscal Year ............................                 Total Deposit
         2024 .................................... $200,000,000
         2025 .................................... $206,000,000
         2026 .................................... $212,200,000
         2027 .................................... $218,500,000
         2028 .................................... $225,100,000
         2029 .................................... $288,700,000
         2030 .................................... $298,900,000
         2031 .................................... $309,300,000
         2032 .................................... $320,100,000
         2033 .................................... $331,200,000
         2034 .................................... $341,200,000
         2035 .................................... $351,400,000
         2036 .................................... $361,900,000
         2037 .................................... $372,800,000
         2038 .................................... $384,000,000
         2039 .................................... $395,500,000
         2040 .................................... $407,400,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        2041 .................................... $419,600,000
        2042 .................................... $432,200,000
        2043 .................................... $445,100,000
    Beginning July 1, 2021 and until July 1, 2022, subject to
the payment of amounts into the State and Local Sales Tax
Reform Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place
Expansion Project Fund, the Energy Infrastructure Fund, and
the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund as provided in this
Section, the Department shall pay each month into the Road
Fund the amount estimated to represent 16% of the net revenue
realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol.
Beginning July 1, 2022 and until July 1, 2023, subject to the
payment of amounts into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform
Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion
Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax
Compliance   and   Administration   Fund    as   provided   in   this
Section, the Department shall pay each month into the Road
Fund the amount estimated to represent 32% of the net revenue
realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol.
Beginning July 1, 2023 and until July 1, 2024, subject to the
payment of amounts into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform
Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion
Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax
Compliance   and   Administration   Fund    as   provided   in   this
Section, the Department shall pay each month into the Road
Fund the amount estimated to represent 48% of the net revenue
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol.
Beginning July 1, 2024 and until July 1, 2026, subject to the
payment of amounts into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform
Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion
Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax
Compliance     and   Administration          Fund    as    provided         in    this
Section, the Department shall pay each month into the Road
Fund the amount estimated to represent 64% of the net revenue
realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol.
Beginning on July 1, 2026, subject to the payment of amounts
into the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund, the Build
Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the
Illinois     Tax   Increment       Fund,    and    the    Tax    Compliance        and
Administration       Fund     as     provided       in    this    Section,         the
Department shall pay each month into the Public Transportation
Fund and the Downstate Public Transportation Fund the amount
estimated to represent 80% of the net revenue realized from
the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol. Those moneys
shall   be    apportioned       as    follows:       85%    into      the        Public
Transportation       Fund    and     15%    into     the    Downstate            Public
Transportation Fund. As used in this paragraph "motor fuel"
has the meaning given to that term in Section 1.1 of the Motor
Fuel Tax Law, and "gasohol" has the meaning given to that term
in Section 3-40 of the Use Tax Act.
    Until    July    1,     2025,    of    the    remainder      of   the        moneys
received by the Department pursuant to this Act, 75% thereof
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the State
treasury and 25% shall be reserved in a special account and
used only for the transfer to the Common School Fund as part of
the    monthly   transfer    from     the   General   Revenue     Fund    in
accordance with Section 8a of the State Finance Act. Beginning
July 1, 2025, of the remainder of the moneys received by the
Department pursuant to this Act, 75% shall be deposited into
the General Revenue Fund and 25% shall be deposited into the
Common School Fund.
      As soon as possible after the first day of each month, upon
certification of the Department of Revenue, the Comptroller
shall order transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer from
the General Revenue Fund to the Motor Fuel Tax Fund an amount
equal to 1.7% of 80% of the net revenue realized under this Act
for the second preceding month. Beginning April 1, 2000, this
transfer is no longer required and shall not be made.
      Net revenue realized for a month shall be the revenue
collected by the State pursuant to this Act, less the amount
paid   out   during   that   month    as    refunds   to   taxpayers     for
overpayment of liability.
(Source: P.A. 103-363, eff. 7-28-23; 103-592, Article 75,
Section 75-10, eff. 1-1-25; 103-592, Article 110, Section
110-10, eff. 6-7-24; 104-6, Article 5, Section 5-15, eff.
6-16-25;     104-6,   Article   35,   Section   35-25,     eff.   6-16-25;
104-417, eff. 8-15-25; 104-457, eff. 6-1-26; revised 1-12-26.)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Section 5-65. The Service Occupation Tax Act is amended by
changing Section 9 as follows:


    (35 ILCS 115/9) (from Ch. 120, par. 439.109)
    (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-457)
    Sec. 9. Each serviceman required or authorized to collect
the tax herein imposed shall pay to the Department the amount
of such tax at the time when he is required to file his return
for the period during which such tax was collectible, less a
discount of 2.1% prior to January 1, 1990, and 1.75% on and
after January 1, 1990, or $5 per calendar year, whichever is
greater, which is allowed to reimburse the serviceman for
expenses incurred in collecting the tax, keeping records,
preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax, and supplying
data to the Department on request. On and after January 1,
2026, a certified service provider, as defined in the Leveling
the Playing Field for Illinois Retail Act, filing the return
under this Section on behalf of a serviceman maintaining a
place of business in this State shall, at the time of such
return, pay to the Department the amount of tax imposed by this
Act less a discount of 1.75%, not to exceed $1,000 $1000 per
month as provided in this Section. A serviceman maintaining a
place of business in this State using a certified service
provider to file a return on its behalf, as provided in the
Leveling the Playing Field for Illinois Retail Act, is not
eligible for the discount. Beginning with returns due on or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


after January 1, 2025, the vendor's discount allowed in this
Section, the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, the Use Tax Act,
and   the   Service    Use    Tax    Act,    including    any      local   tax
administered   by     the    Department     and    reported   on    the    same
return, shall not exceed $1,000 per month in the aggregate.
When determining the discount allowed under this Section,
servicemen shall include the amount of tax that would have
been due at the 1% rate but for the 0% rate imposed under
Public Act 102-700. The discount under this Section is not
allowed for the 1.25% portion of taxes paid on aviation fuel
that is subject to the revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C.
47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133. The discount allowed under this
Section is allowed only for returns that are filed in the
manner required by this Act. The Department may disallow the
discount for servicemen whose certificate of registration is
revoked at the time the return is filed, but only if the
Department's      decision      to    revoke       the   certificate        of
registration has become final.
      Where such tangible personal property is sold under a
conditional sales contract, or under any other form of sale
wherein the payment of the principal sum, or a part thereof, is
extended beyond the close of the period for which the return is
filed, the serviceman, in collecting the tax may collect, for
each tax return period, only the tax applicable to the part of
the selling price actually received during such tax return
period.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      Except as provided hereinafter in this Section, on or
before     the      twentieth   day    of     each     calendar    month,     such
serviceman shall file a return for the preceding calendar
month in accordance with reasonable rules and regulations to
be promulgated by the Department of Revenue. Such return shall
be filed on a form prescribed by the Department and shall
contain such information as the Department may reasonably
require. The return shall include the gross receipts which
were received during the preceding calendar month or quarter
on the following items upon which tax would have been due but
for the 0% rate imposed under Public Act 102-700: (i) food for
human consumption that is to be consumed off the premises
where    it    is    sold   (other     than    alcoholic       beverages,     food
consisting of or infused with adult use cannabis, soft drinks,
and food that has been prepared for immediate consumption);
and     (ii)     food    prepared      for    immediate        consumption    and
transferred incident to a sale of service subject to this Act
or the Service Use Tax Act by an entity licensed under the
Hospital       Licensing    Act,     the     Nursing    Home    Care   Act,   the
Assisted Living and Shared Housing Act, the ID/DD Community
Care    Act,     the    MC/DD   Act,    the    Specialized        Mental    Health
Rehabilitation Act of 2013, or the Child Care Act of 1969, or
an entity that holds a permit issued pursuant to the Life Care
Facilities Act. The return shall also include the amount of
tax that would have been due on the items listed in the
previous sentence but for the 0% rate imposed under Public Act
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


102-700.
    On and after January 1, 2018, with respect to servicemen
whose annual gross receipts average $20,000 or more, all
returns required to be filed pursuant to this Act shall be
filed electronically. Servicemen who demonstrate that they do
not have access to the Internet or demonstrate hardship in
filing electronically may petition the Department to waive the
electronic filing requirement.
    The    Department   may   require   returns    to    be   filed    on   a
quarterly basis. If so required, a return for each calendar
quarter shall be filed on or before the twentieth day of the
calendar month following the end of such calendar quarter. The
taxpayer shall also file a return with the Department for each
of the first 2 two months of each calendar quarter, on or
before the twentieth day of the following calendar month,
stating:
          1. The name of the seller;
          2. The address of the principal place of business from
    which he engages in business as a serviceman in this
    State;
          3. The total amount of taxable receipts received by
    him    during   the   preceding     calendar     month,     including
    receipts    from    charge   and    time    sales,    but   less    all
    deductions allowed by law;
          4. The amount of credit provided in Section 2d of this
    Act;
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


           5. The amount of tax due;
           5-5. The signature of the taxpayer; and
           6. Such other reasonable information as the Department
     may require.
     Each serviceman required or authorized to collect the tax
herein imposed on aviation fuel acquired as an incident to the
purchase of a service in this State during the preceding
calendar month shall, instead of reporting and paying tax as
otherwise required by this Section, report and pay such tax on
a separate aviation fuel tax return. The requirements related
to the return shall be as otherwise provided in this Section.
Notwithstanding     any   other    provisions     of    this   Act   to   the
contrary, servicemen transferring aviation fuel incident to
sales of service shall file all aviation fuel tax returns and
shall make all aviation fuel tax payments by electronic means
in   the   manner   and   form    required   by   the    Department.      For
purposes of this Section, "aviation fuel" means jet fuel and
aviation gasoline.
     If a taxpayer fails to sign a return within 30 days after
the proper notice and demand for signature by the Department,
the return shall be considered valid and any amount shown to be
due on the return shall be deemed assessed.
     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act to the
contrary, servicemen subject to tax on cannabis shall file all
cannabis tax returns and shall make all cannabis tax payments
by electronic means in the manner and form required by the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Department.
      Prior to October 1, 2003, and on and after September 1,
2004 a serviceman may accept a Manufacturer's Purchase Credit
certification from a purchaser in satisfaction of Service Use
Tax as provided in Section 3-70 of the Service Use Tax Act if
the    purchaser        provides    the      appropriate      documentation        as
required     by    Section    3-70   of      the   Service    Use   Tax    Act.    A
Manufacturer's Purchase Credit certification, accepted prior
to October 1, 2003 or on or after September 1, 2004 by a
serviceman as provided in Section 3-70 of the Service Use Tax
Act,   may   be     used    by   that     serviceman     to    satisfy     Service
Occupation        Tax   liability       in   the   amount     claimed      in    the
certification, not to exceed 6.25% of the receipts subject to
tax from a qualifying purchase. A Manufacturer's Purchase
Credit reported on any original or amended return filed under
this Act after October 20, 2003 for reporting periods prior to
September 1, 2004 shall be disallowed. Manufacturer's Purchase
Credit reported on annual returns due on or after January 1,
2005 will be disallowed for periods prior to September 1,
2004. No Manufacturer's Purchase Credit may be used after
September 30, 2003 through August 31, 2004 to satisfy any tax
liability     imposed       under    this      Act,     including    any        audit
liability.
      Beginning on July 1, 2023 and through December 31, 2032, a
serviceman may accept a Sustainable Aviation Fuel Purchase
Credit certification from an air common carrier-purchaser in
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


satisfaction of Service Use Tax as provided in Section 3-72 of
the   Service   Use   Tax   Act   if   the    purchaser   provides   the
appropriate documentation as required by Section 3-72 of the
Service Use Tax Act. A Sustainable Aviation Fuel Purchase
Credit certification accepted by a serviceman in accordance
with this paragraph may be used by that serviceman to satisfy
service occupation tax liability (but not in satisfaction of
penalty    or   interest)    in    the       amount   claimed   in   the
certification, not to exceed 6.25% of the receipts subject to
tax from a sale of aviation fuel. In addition, for a sale of
aviation fuel to qualify to earn the Sustainable Aviation Fuel
Purchase Credit, servicemen must retain in their books and
records a certification from the producer of the aviation fuel
that the aviation fuel sold by the serviceman and for which a
sustainable aviation fuel purchase credit was earned meets the
definition of sustainable aviation fuel under Section 3-72 of
the Service Use Tax Act. The documentation must include detail
sufficient for the Department to determine the number of
gallons of sustainable aviation fuel sold.
      If the serviceman's average monthly tax liability to the
Department does not exceed $200, the Department may authorize
his returns to be filed on a quarter annual basis, with the
return for January, February, and March of a given year being
due by April 20 of such year; with the return for April, May,
and June of a given year being due by July 20 of such year;
with the return for July, August, and September of a given year
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


being due by October 20 of such year, and with the return for
October, November, and December of a given year being due by
January 20 of the following year.
      If the serviceman's average monthly tax liability to the
Department does not exceed $50, the Department may authorize
his returns to be filed on an annual basis, with the return for
a given year being due by January 20 of the following year.
      Such quarter annual and annual returns, as to form and
substance,   shall    be   subject    to   the    same    requirements      as
monthly returns.
      Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act concerning
the time within which a serviceman may file his return, in the
case of any serviceman who ceases to engage in a kind of
business which makes him responsible for filing returns under
this Act, such serviceman shall file a final return under this
Act   with   the   Department   not    more      than    one   month   after
discontinuing such business.
      Beginning October 1, 1993, a taxpayer who has an average
monthly tax liability of $150,000 or more shall make all
payments required by rules of the Department by electronic
funds transfer. Beginning October 1, 1994, a taxpayer who has
an average monthly tax liability of $100,000 or more shall
make all payments required by rules of the Department by
electronic    funds   transfer.      Beginning     October     1,   1995,   a
taxpayer who has an average monthly tax liability of $50,000
or more shall make all payments required by rules of the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Department by electronic funds transfer. Beginning October 1,
2000, a taxpayer who has an annual tax liability of $200,000 or
more   shall    make    all    payments     required   by    rules    of   the
Department by electronic funds transfer. The term "annual tax
liability" shall be the sum of the taxpayer's liabilities
under this Act, and under all other State and local occupation
and use tax laws administered by the Department, for the
immediately preceding calendar year. The term "average monthly
tax liability" means the sum of the taxpayer's liabilities
under this Act, and under all other State and local occupation
and use tax laws administered by the Department, for the
immediately preceding calendar year divided by 12. Beginning
on October 1, 2002, a taxpayer who has a tax liability in the
amount set forth in subsection (b) of Section 2505-210 of the
Department of Revenue Law shall make all payments required by
rules of the Department by electronic funds transfer.
    Before     August   1     of   each   year   beginning   in   1993,    the
Department     shall    notify      all   taxpayers    required      to    make
payments by electronic funds transfer. All taxpayers required
to make payments by electronic funds transfer shall make those
payments for a minimum of one year beginning on October 1.
    Any taxpayer not required to make payments by electronic
funds transfer may make payments by electronic funds transfer
with the permission of the Department.
    All taxpayers required to make payment by electronic funds
transfer and any taxpayers authorized to voluntarily make
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


payments     by    electronic     funds        transfer    shall   make        those
payments in the manner authorized by the Department.
      The Department shall adopt such rules as are necessary to
effectuate a program of electronic funds transfer and the
requirements of this Section.
      Where a serviceman collects the tax with respect to the
selling price of tangible personal property which he sells and
the    purchaser     thereafter     returns        such     tangible    personal
property and the serviceman refunds the selling price thereof
to the purchaser, such serviceman shall also refund, to the
purchaser, the tax so collected from the purchaser. When
filing his return for the period in which he refunds such tax
to the purchaser, the serviceman may deduct the amount of the
tax so refunded by him to the purchaser from any other Service
Occupation Tax, Service Use Tax, Retailers' Occupation Tax, or
Use Tax which such serviceman may be required to pay or remit
to the Department, as shown by such return, provided that the
amount of the tax to be deducted shall previously have been
remitted     to    the   Department       by     such     serviceman.     If    the
serviceman shall not previously have remitted the amount of
such   tax   to    the   Department,      he     shall    be   entitled    to     no
deduction hereunder upon refunding such tax to the purchaser.
      If experience indicates such action to be practicable, the
Department may prescribe and furnish a combination or joint
return which will enable servicemen, who are required to file
returns hereunder and also under the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Act, the Use Tax Act, or the Service Use Tax Act, to furnish
all the return information required by all said Acts on the one
form.
    Where the serviceman has more than one business registered
with the Department under separate registrations hereunder,
such    serviceman    shall      file     separate    returns      for     each
registered business.
    The net revenue realized at the 15% rate under either
Section 4 or Section 5 of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, as
incorporated into this Act by Section 12, shall be deposited
as follows: (i) notwithstanding the provisions of this Section
to the contrary, the net revenue realized from the portion of
the rate in excess of 5% shall be deposited into the State and
Local Sales Tax Reform Fund; and (ii) the net revenue realized
from the 5% portion of the rate shall be deposited as provided
in this Section for the 5% portion of the 6.25% general rate
imposed under this Act.
    Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the Local Government Tax Fund the revenue realized
for the preceding month from the 1% tax imposed under this Act.
    Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the County and Mass Transit District Fund 4% of the
revenue    realized   for    the      preceding    month   from    the    6.25%
general rate on sales of tangible personal property other than
aviation    fuel   sold     on   or    after   December    1,     2019.    This
exception for aviation fuel only applies for so long as the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C.
47133 are binding on the State.
      Beginning August 1, 2000, each month the Department shall
pay into the County and Mass Transit District Fund 20% of the
net revenue realized for the preceding month from the 1.25%
rate on the selling price of motor fuel and gasohol.
      Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the Local Government Tax Fund 16% of the revenue
realized for the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate
on transfers of tangible personal property other than aviation
fuel sold on or after December 1, 2019. This exception for
aviation fuel only applies for so long as the revenue use
requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133 are
binding on the State.
      For aviation fuel sold on or after December 1, 2019, each
month the Department shall pay into the State Aviation Program
Fund 20% of the net revenue realized for the preceding month
from the 6.25% general rate on the selling price of aviation
fuel,   less   an     amount    estimated   by    the   Department   to    be
required for refunds of the 20% portion of the tax on aviation
fuel under this Act, which amount shall be deposited into the
Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund. The Department shall only
pay   moneys   into    the     State   Aviation    Program   Fund   and   the
Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund under this Act for so long
as the revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49
U.S.C. 47133 are binding on the State.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


     Beginning August 1, 2000, each month the Department shall
pay into the Local Government Tax Fund 80% of the net revenue
realized for the preceding month from the 1.25% rate on the
selling price of motor fuel and gasohol.
     Beginning October 1, 2009 and through June 30, 2026, each
month the Department shall pay into the Capital Projects Fund
an   amount    that   is   equal   to   an   amount   estimated     by   the
Department to represent 80% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the sale of candy, grooming and
hygiene products, and soft drinks that had been taxed at a rate
of 1% prior to September 1, 2009, but that are now taxed at
6.25%.
     Beginning July 1, 2013, each month the Department shall
pay into the Underground Storage Tank Fund from the proceeds
collected under this Act, the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax
Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act an amount equal to
the average monthly deficit in the Underground Storage Tank
Fund during the prior year, as certified annually by the
Illinois      Environmental   Protection      Agency,   but   the    total
payment into the Underground Storage Tank Fund under this Act,
the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, and the Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act shall not exceed $18,000,000 in any State
fiscal year. As used in this paragraph, the "average monthly
deficit" shall be equal to the difference between the average
monthly claims for payment by the fund and the average monthly
revenues deposited into the fund, excluding payments made
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


pursuant to this paragraph.
      Beginning July 1, 2015, of the remainder of the moneys
received by the Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service
Use Tax Act, this Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act,
each month the Department shall deposit $500,000 into the
State Crime Laboratory Fund.
      Of the remainder of the moneys received by the Department
pursuant to this Act, (a) 1.75% thereof shall be paid into the
Build Illinois Fund and (b) prior to July 1, 1989, 2.2% and on
and after July 1, 1989, 3.8% thereof shall be paid into the
Build Illinois Fund; provided, however, that if in any fiscal
year the sum of (1) the aggregate of 2.2% or 3.8%, as the case
may be, of the moneys received by the Department and required
to be paid into the Build Illinois Fund pursuant to Section 3
of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, Section 9 of the Use Tax
Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, and Section 9 of the
Service Occupation Tax Act, such Acts being hereinafter called
the "Tax Acts" and such aggregate of 2.2% or 3.8%, as the case
may   be,   of   moneys   being   hereinafter   called   the   "Tax   Act
Amount", and (2) the amount transferred to the Build Illinois
Fund from the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund shall be
less than the Annual Specified Amount (as defined in Section 3
of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act), an amount equal to the
difference shall be immediately paid into the Build Illinois
Fund from other moneys received by the Department pursuant to
the Tax Acts; and further provided, that if on the last
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


business day of any month the sum of (1) the Tax Act Amount
required to be deposited into the Build Illinois Account in
the Build Illinois Fund during such month and (2) the amount
transferred during such month to the Build Illinois Fund from
the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund shall have been less
than 1/12 of the Annual Specified Amount, an amount equal to
the   difference   shall   be   immediately    paid   into    the   Build
Illinois Fund from other moneys received by the Department
pursuant to the Tax Acts; and, further provided, that in no
event shall the payments required under the preceding proviso
result in aggregate payments into the Build Illinois Fund
pursuant to this clause (b) for any fiscal year in excess of
the greater of (i) the Tax Act Amount or (ii) the Annual
Specified Amount for such fiscal year; and, further provided,
that the amounts payable into the Build Illinois Fund under
this clause (b) shall be payable only until such time as the
aggregate   amount    on   deposit   under    each    trust   indenture
securing Bonds issued and outstanding pursuant to the Build
Illinois Bond Act is sufficient, taking into account any
future investment income, to fully provide, in accordance with
such indenture, for the defeasance of or the payment of the
principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds
secured by such indenture and on any Bonds expected to be
issued thereafter and all fees and costs payable with respect
thereto, all as certified by the Director of the Bureau of the
Budget (now Governor's Office of Management and Budget). If on
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the   last     business    day    of       any   month       in    which     Bonds       are
outstanding pursuant to the Build Illinois Bond Act, the
aggregate of the moneys deposited into in the Build Illinois
Bond Account in the Build Illinois Fund in such month shall be
less than the amount required to be transferred in such month
from the Build Illinois Bond Account to the Build Illinois
Bond Retirement and Interest Fund pursuant to Section 13 of
the    Build    Illinois       Bond    Act,      an     amount       equal     to    such
deficiency      shall     be    immediately           paid    from     other        moneys
received by the Department pursuant to the Tax Acts to the
Build Illinois Fund; provided, however, that any amounts paid
to the Build Illinois Fund in any fiscal year pursuant to this
sentence shall be deemed to constitute payments pursuant to
clause (b) of the preceding sentence and shall reduce the
amount otherwise payable for such fiscal year pursuant to
clause (b) of the preceding sentence. The moneys received by
the   Department    pursuant          to    this   Act       and    required        to    be
deposited into the Build Illinois Fund are subject to the
pledge, claim and charge set forth in Section 12 of the Build
Illinois Bond Act.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois Fund
as provided in the preceding paragraph or in any amendment
thereto hereafter enacted, the following specified monthly
installment of the amount requested in the certificate of the
Chairman of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
provided under Section 8.25f of the State Finance Act, but not
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


in excess of the sums designated as "Total Deposit", shall be
deposited in the aggregate from collections under Section 9 of
the Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, Section
9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, and Section 3 of the
Retailers'   Occupation    Tax   Act   into   the   McCormick   Place
Expansion Project Fund in the specified fiscal years.


             Fiscal Year                               Total Deposit
                  1993                                            $0
                  1994                                   53,000,000
                  1995                                   58,000,000
                  1996                                   61,000,000
                  1997                                   64,000,000
                  1998                                   68,000,000
                  1999                                   71,000,000
                  2000                                   75,000,000
                  2001                                   80,000,000
                  2002                                   93,000,000
                  2003                                   99,000,000
                  2004                                  103,000,000
                  2005                                  108,000,000
                  2006                                  113,000,000
                  2007                                  119,000,000
                  2008                                  126,000,000
                  2009                                  132,000,000
                  2010                                  139,000,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


                  2011               146,000,000
                  2012               153,000,000
                  2013               161,000,000
                  2014               170,000,000
                  2015               179,000,000
                  2016               189,000,000
                  2017               199,000,000
                  2018               210,000,000
                  2019               221,000,000
                  2020               233,000,000
                  2021               300,000,000
                  2022               300,000,000
                  2023               300,000,000
                  2024               300,000,000
                  2025               300,000,000
                  2026               300,000,000
                  2027               375,000,000
                  2028               375,000,000
                  2029               375,000,000
                  2030               375,000,000
                  2031               375,000,000
                  2032               375,000,000
                  2033               375,000,000
                  2034               375,000,000
                  2035               375,000,000
                  2036               450,000,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


                     and
               each fiscal year
           thereafter that bonds
           are outstanding under
            Section 13.2 of the
           Metropolitan Pier and
        Exposition Authority Act,
  but not after fiscal year 2060.
      Beginning July 20, 1993 and in each month of each fiscal
year thereafter, one-eighth of the amount requested in the
certificate of the Chairman of the Metropolitan Pier and
Exposition Authority for that fiscal year, less the amount
deposited into the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund by
the State Treasurer in the respective month under subsection
(g) of Section 13 of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition
Authority Act, plus cumulative deficiencies in the deposits
required under this Section for previous months and years,
shall be deposited into the McCormick Place Expansion Project
Fund, until the full amount requested for the fiscal year, but
not   in    excess   of    the   amount   specified     above   as   "Total
Deposit", has been deposited.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Capital Projects
Fund,    the    Build   Illinois    Fund,   and   the   McCormick    Place
Expansion Project Fund pursuant to the preceding paragraphs or
in any amendments thereto hereafter enacted, for aviation fuel
sold on or after December 1, 2019, the Department shall each
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


month deposit into the Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund an
amount estimated by the Department to be required for refunds
of the 80% portion of the tax on aviation fuel under this Act.
The Department shall only deposit moneys into the Aviation
Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund under this paragraph for so long as
the revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49
U.S.C. 47133 are binding on the State.
    Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois Fund
and the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund pursuant to the
preceding paragraphs or in any amendments thereto hereafter
enacted, beginning July 1, 1993 and ending on September 30,
2013, the Department shall each month pay into the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund 0.27% of 80% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate on the selling
price of tangible personal property.
    Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois
Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, and the
Illinois   Tax    Increment   Fund   pursuant   to   the   preceding
paragraphs or in any amendments to this Section hereafter
enacted, beginning on the first day of the first calendar
month to occur on or after August 26, 2014 (the effective date
of Public Act 98-1098), each month, from the collections made
under Section 9 of the Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service
Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, and
Section 3 of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, the Department
shall pay into the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund, to
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


be used, subject to appropriation, to fund additional auditors
and compliance personnel at the Department of Revenue, an
amount equal to 1/12 of 5% of 80% of the cash receipts
collected during the preceding fiscal year by the Audit Bureau
of the Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax
Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, the Retailers' Occupation
Tax   Act,    and      associated    local      occupation     and   use      taxes
administered by the Department.
      Subject to payments of amounts into the Build Illinois
Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax Compliance and Administration
Fund as provided in this Section, beginning on July 1, 2018 the
Department shall pay each month into the Downstate Public
Transportation Fund the moneys required to be so paid under
Section 2-3 of the Downstate Public Transportation Act.
      Subject     to    successful       execution     and    delivery     of    a
public-private agreement between the public agency and private
entity and completion of the civic build, beginning on July 1,
2023,    of     the    remainder    of    the     moneys     received    by     the
Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and this Act, the Department shall
deposit the following specified deposits in the aggregate from
collections under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act, as required under Section 8.25g of the State Finance Act
for     distribution        consistent          with   the      Public-Private
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
The moneys received by the Department pursuant to this Act and
required   to     be    deposited       into    the      Civic    and    Transit
Infrastructure Fund are subject to the pledge, claim and
charge   set    forth    in   Section    25-55     of    the     Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
As used in this paragraph, "civic build", "private entity",
"public-private        agreement",   and       "public    agency"       have   the
meanings   provided      in   Section    25-10     of    the     Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
         Fiscal Year ............................                 Total Deposit
         2024 .................................... $200,000,000
         2025 .................................... $206,000,000
         2026 .................................... $212,200,000
         2027 .................................... $218,500,000
         2028 .................................... $225,100,000
         2029 .................................... $288,700,000
         2030 .................................... $298,900,000
         2031 .................................... $309,300,000
         2032 .................................... $320,100,000
         2033 .................................... $331,200,000
         2034 .................................... $341,200,000
         2035 .................................... $351,400,000
         2036 .................................... $361,900,000
         2037 .................................... $372,800,000
         2038 .................................... $384,000,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


         2039 .................................... $395,500,000
         2040 .................................... $407,400,000
         2041 .................................... $419,600,000
         2042 .................................... $432,200,000
         2043 .................................... $445,100,000
      Beginning July 1, 2021 and until July 1, 2022, subject to
the   payment    of   amounts       into    the   County      and   Mass   Transit
District   Fund,      the    Local       Government     Tax   Fund,     the    Build
Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the
Illinois   Tax    Increment         Fund,   and    the    Tax    Compliance     and
Administration        Fund     as    provided      in     this      Section,    the
Department shall pay each month into the Road Fund the amount
estimated to represent 16% of the net revenue realized from
the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol. Beginning July 1,
2022 and until July 1, 2023, subject to the payment of amounts
into the County and Mass Transit District Fund, the Local
Government Tax Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick
Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund,
and the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund as provided in
this Section, the Department shall pay each month into the
Road Fund the amount estimated to represent 32% of the net
revenue realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and
gasohol.   Beginning         July   1,    2023    and    until   July    1,    2024,
subject to the payment of amounts into the County and Mass
Transit District Fund, the Local Government Tax Fund, the
Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax Compliance
and Administration Fund as provided in this Section, the
Department shall pay each month into the Road Fund the amount
estimated to represent 48% of the net revenue realized from
the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol. Beginning July 1,
2024 and until July 1, 2026, subject to the payment of amounts
into the County and Mass Transit District Fund, the Local
Government Tax Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick
Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund,
and the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund as provided in
this Section, the Department shall pay each month into the
Road Fund the amount estimated to represent 64% of the net
revenue realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and
gasohol. Beginning on July 1, 2026, subject to the payment of
amounts into the County and Mass Transit District Fund, the
Local   Government    Tax   Fund,     the   Build   Illinois    Fund,   the
McCormick   Place    Expansion    Project     Fund,   the   Illinois    Tax
Increment Fund, and the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund
as provided in this Section, the Department shall pay each
month into the Road Fund the amount estimated to represent 80%
of the net revenue realized from the taxes imposed on motor
fuel and gasohol. As used in this paragraph "motor fuel" has
the meaning given to that term in Section 1.1 of the Motor Fuel
Tax Law, and "gasohol" has the meaning given to that term in
Section 3-40 of the Use Tax Act.
    Until   July    1,   2025,   of   the   remainder   of     the   moneys
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


received by the Department pursuant to this Act, 75% shall be
paid into the General Revenue Fund of the State treasury and
25% shall be reserved in a special account and used only for
the transfer to the Common School Fund as part of the monthly
transfer from the General Revenue Fund in accordance with
Section 8a of the State Finance Act. Beginning July 1, 2025, of
the   remainder   of   the   moneys   received   by   the   Department
pursuant to this Act, 75% shall be deposited into the General
Revenue Fund and 25% shall be deposited into the Common School
Fund.
      The Department may, upon separate written notice to a
taxpayer, require the taxpayer to prepare and file with the
Department on a form prescribed by the Department within not
less than 60 days after receipt of the notice an annual
information return for the tax year specified in the notice.
Such annual return to the Department shall include a statement
of gross receipts as shown by the taxpayer's last federal
income tax return. If the total receipts of the business as
reported in the federal income tax return do not agree with the
gross receipts reported to the Department of Revenue for the
same period, the taxpayer shall attach to his annual return a
schedule showing a reconciliation of the 2 amounts and the
reasons for the difference. The taxpayer's annual return to
the Department shall also disclose the cost of goods sold by
the taxpayer during the year covered by such return, opening
and closing inventories of such goods for such year, cost of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


goods used from stock or taken from stock and given away by the
taxpayer during such year, payroll pay roll information of the
taxpayer's      business       during    such    year    and    any   additional
reasonable information which the Department deems would be
helpful in determining the accuracy of the monthly, quarterly
or annual returns filed by such taxpayer as hereinbefore
provided for in this Section.
    If the annual information return required by this Section
is not filed when and as required, the taxpayer shall be liable
as follows:
         (i) Until       January 1,       1994,     the taxpayer shall         be
    liable for a penalty equal to 1/6 of 1% of the tax due from
    such taxpayer under this Act during the period to be
    covered by the annual return for each month or fraction of
    a   month    until     such   return    is    filed    as    required,    the
    penalty to be assessed and collected in the same manner as
    any other penalty provided for in this Act.
         (ii) On and after January 1, 1994, the taxpayer shall
    be liable for a penalty as described in Section 3-4 of the
    Uniform Penalty and Interest Act.
    The chief executive officer, proprietor, owner, or highest
ranking manager shall sign the annual return to certify the
accuracy of the information contained therein. Any person who
willfully     signs      the    annual     return       containing    false    or
inaccurate information shall be guilty of perjury and punished
accordingly.      The    annual     return       form    prescribed     by    the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Department shall include a warning that the person signing the
return may be liable for perjury.
      The   foregoing     portion      of   this   Section      concerning   the
filing of an annual information return shall not apply to a
serviceman who is not required to file an income tax return
with the United States Government.
      As soon as possible after the first day of each month, upon
certification of the Department of Revenue, the Comptroller
shall order transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer from
the General Revenue Fund to the Motor Fuel Tax Fund an amount
equal to 1.7% of 80% of the net revenue realized under this Act
for the second preceding month. Beginning April 1, 2000, this
transfer is no longer required and shall not be made.
      Net revenue realized for a month shall be the revenue
collected by the State pursuant to this Act, less the amount
paid   out    during     that   month       as   refunds   to   taxpayers    for
overpayment of liability.
      For greater simplicity of administration, it shall be
permissible for manufacturers, importers and wholesalers whose
products are sold by numerous servicemen in Illinois, and who
wish to do so, to assume the responsibility for accounting and
paying to the Department all tax accruing under this Act with
respect to such sales, if the servicemen who are affected do
not    make    written     objection        to   the   Department       to   this
arrangement.
(Source:      P.A.   103-9,     eff.   6-7-23;     103-363,      eff.   7-28-23;
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


103-592, eff. 6-7-24; 103-605, eff. 7-1-24; 104-6, Article 5,
Section 5-20, eff. 6-16-25; 104-6, Article 25, Section 25-15,
eff. 6-16-25; 104-6, Article 35, Section 35-30, eff. 6-16-25;
revised 1-12-26.)


    (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-457)
    Sec. 9. Each serviceman required or authorized to collect
the tax herein imposed shall pay to the Department the amount
of such tax at the time when he is required to file his return
for the period during which such tax was collectible, less a
discount of 2.1% prior to January 1, 1990, and 1.75% on and
after January 1, 1990, or $5 per calendar year, whichever is
greater, which is allowed to reimburse the serviceman for
expenses incurred in collecting the tax, keeping records,
preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax, and supplying
data to the Department on request. On and after January 1,
2026, a certified service provider, as defined in the Leveling
the Playing Field for Illinois Retail Act, filing the return
under this Section on behalf of a serviceman maintaining a
place of business in this State shall, at the time of such
return, pay to the Department the amount of tax imposed by this
Act less a discount of 1.75%, not to exceed $1,000 per month as
provided in this Section. A serviceman maintaining a place of
business in this State using a certified service provider to
file a return on its behalf, as provided in the Leveling the
Playing Field for Illinois Retail Act, is not eligible for the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


discount. Beginning with returns due on or after January 1,
2025, the vendor's discount allowed in this Section, the
Retailers'   Occupation   Tax   Act,   the    Use   Tax   Act,    and   the
Service Use Tax Act, including any local tax administered by
the Department and reported on the same return, shall not
exceed $1,000 per month in the aggregate. When determining the
discount allowed under this Section, servicemen shall include
the amount of tax that would have been due at the 1% rate but
for the 0% rate imposed under Public Act 102-700. The discount
under this Section is not allowed for the 1.25% portion of
taxes paid on aviation fuel that is subject to the revenue use
requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133. The
discount   allowed   under   this   Section    is   allowed      only   for
returns that are filed in the manner required by this Act. The
Department may disallow the discount for servicemen whose
certificate of registration is revoked at the time the return
is filed, but only if the Department's decision to revoke the
certificate of registration has become final.
    Where such tangible personal property is sold under a
conditional sales contract, or under any other form of sale
wherein the payment of the principal sum, or a part thereof, is
extended beyond the close of the period for which the return is
filed, the serviceman, in collecting the tax may collect, for
each tax return period, only the tax applicable to the part of
the selling price actually received during such tax return
period.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      Except as provided hereinafter in this Section, on or
before     the      twentieth   day    of     each     calendar    month,     such
serviceman shall file a return for the preceding calendar
month in accordance with reasonable rules and regulations to
be promulgated by the Department of Revenue. Such return shall
be filed on a form prescribed by the Department and shall
contain such information as the Department may reasonably
require. The return shall include the gross receipts which
were received during the preceding calendar month or quarter
on the following items upon which tax would have been due but
for the 0% rate imposed under Public Act 102-700: (i) food for
human consumption that is to be consumed off the premises
where    it    is    sold   (other     than    alcoholic       beverages,     food
consisting of or infused with adult use cannabis, soft drinks,
and food that has been prepared for immediate consumption);
and     (ii)     food    prepared      for    immediate        consumption    and
transferred incident to a sale of service subject to this Act
or the Service Use Tax Act by an entity licensed under the
Hospital       Licensing    Act,     the     Nursing    Home    Care   Act,   the
Assisted Living and Shared Housing Act, the ID/DD Community
Care    Act,     the    MC/DD   Act,    the    Specialized        Mental    Health
Rehabilitation Act of 2013, or the Child Care Act of 1969, or
an entity that holds a permit issued pursuant to the Life Care
Facilities Act. The return shall also include the amount of
tax that would have been due on the items listed in the
previous sentence but for the 0% rate imposed under Public Act
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


102-700.
    On and after January 1, 2018, with respect to servicemen
whose annual gross receipts average $20,000 or more, all
returns required to be filed pursuant to this Act shall be
filed electronically. Servicemen who demonstrate that they do
not have access to the Internet or demonstrate hardship in
filing electronically may petition the Department to waive the
electronic filing requirement.
    The    Department   may   require   returns    to    be   filed    on   a
quarterly basis. If so required, a return for each calendar
quarter shall be filed on or before the twentieth day of the
calendar month following the end of such calendar quarter. The
taxpayer shall also file a return with the Department for each
of the first 2 months of each calendar quarter, on or before
the twentieth day of the following calendar month, stating:
          1. The name of the seller;
          2. The address of the principal place of business from
    which he engages in business as a serviceman in this
    State;
          3. The total amount of taxable receipts received by
    him    during   the   preceding     calendar     month,     including
    receipts    from    charge   and    time    sales,    but   less    all
    deductions allowed by law;
          4. The amount of credit provided in Section 2d of this
    Act;
          5. The amount of tax due;
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


           5-5. The signature of the taxpayer; and
           6. Such other reasonable information as the Department
     may require.
     Each serviceman required or authorized to collect the tax
herein imposed on aviation fuel acquired as an incident to the
purchase of a service in this State during the preceding
calendar month shall, instead of reporting and paying tax as
otherwise required by this Section, report and pay such tax on
a separate aviation fuel tax return. The requirements related
to the return shall be as otherwise provided in this Section.
Notwithstanding     any   other    provisions     of    this   Act   to   the
contrary, servicemen transferring aviation fuel incident to
sales of service shall file all aviation fuel tax returns and
shall make all aviation fuel tax payments by electronic means
in   the   manner   and   form    required   by   the    Department.      For
purposes of this Section, "aviation fuel" means jet fuel and
aviation gasoline.
     If a taxpayer fails to sign a return within 30 days after
the proper notice and demand for signature by the Department,
the return shall be considered valid and any amount shown to be
due on the return shall be deemed assessed.
     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act to the
contrary, servicemen subject to tax on cannabis shall file all
cannabis tax returns and shall make all cannabis tax payments
by electronic means in the manner and form required by the
Department.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      Prior to October 1, 2003, and on and after September 1,
2004 a serviceman may accept a Manufacturer's Purchase Credit
certification from a purchaser in satisfaction of Service Use
Tax as provided in Section 3-70 of the Service Use Tax Act if
the    purchaser        provides    the      appropriate      documentation        as
required     by    Section    3-70   of      the   Service    Use   Tax    Act.    A
Manufacturer's Purchase Credit certification, accepted prior
to October 1, 2003 or on or after September 1, 2004 by a
serviceman as provided in Section 3-70 of the Service Use Tax
Act,   may   be     used    by   that     serviceman     to    satisfy     Service
Occupation        Tax   liability       in   the   amount     claimed      in    the
certification, not to exceed 6.25% of the receipts subject to
tax from a qualifying purchase. A Manufacturer's Purchase
Credit reported on any original or amended return filed under
this Act after October 20, 2003 for reporting periods prior to
September 1, 2004 shall be disallowed. Manufacturer's Purchase
Credit reported on annual returns due on or after January 1,
2005 will be disallowed for periods prior to September 1,
2004. No Manufacturer's Purchase Credit may be used after
September 30, 2003 through August 31, 2004 to satisfy any tax
liability     imposed       under    this      Act,     including    any        audit
liability.
      Beginning on July 1, 2023 and through December 31, 2032, a
serviceman may accept a Sustainable Aviation Fuel Purchase
Credit certification from an air common carrier-purchaser in
satisfaction of Service Use Tax as provided in Section 3-72 of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the   Service   Use   Tax   Act   if   the    purchaser   provides   the
appropriate documentation as required by Section 3-72 of the
Service Use Tax Act. A Sustainable Aviation Fuel Purchase
Credit certification accepted by a serviceman in accordance
with this paragraph may be used by that serviceman to satisfy
service occupation tax liability (but not in satisfaction of
penalty    or   interest)    in    the       amount   claimed   in   the
certification, not to exceed 6.25% of the receipts subject to
tax from a sale of aviation fuel. In addition, for a sale of
aviation fuel to qualify to earn the Sustainable Aviation Fuel
Purchase Credit, servicemen must retain in their books and
records a certification from the producer of the aviation fuel
that the aviation fuel sold by the serviceman and for which a
sustainable aviation fuel purchase credit was earned meets the
definition of sustainable aviation fuel under Section 3-72 of
the Service Use Tax Act. The documentation must include detail
sufficient for the Department to determine the number of
gallons of sustainable aviation fuel sold.
      If the serviceman's average monthly tax liability to the
Department does not exceed $200, the Department may authorize
his returns to be filed on a quarter annual basis, with the
return for January, February, and March of a given year being
due by April 20 of such year; with the return for April, May,
and June of a given year being due by July 20 of such year;
with the return for July, August, and September of a given year
being due by October 20 of such year, and with the return for
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


October, November, and December of a given year being due by
January 20 of the following year.
      If the serviceman's average monthly tax liability to the
Department does not exceed $50, the Department may authorize
his returns to be filed on an annual basis, with the return for
a given year being due by January 20 of the following year.
      Such quarter annual and annual returns, as to form and
substance,   shall    be   subject    to   the    same    requirements      as
monthly returns.
      Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act concerning
the time within which a serviceman may file his return, in the
case of any serviceman who ceases to engage in a kind of
business which makes him responsible for filing returns under
this Act, such serviceman shall file a final return under this
Act   with   the   Department   not    more      than    one   month   after
discontinuing such business.
      Beginning October 1, 1993, a taxpayer who has an average
monthly tax liability of $150,000 or more shall make all
payments required by rules of the Department by electronic
funds transfer. Beginning October 1, 1994, a taxpayer who has
an average monthly tax liability of $100,000 or more shall
make all payments required by rules of the Department by
electronic    funds   transfer.      Beginning     October     1,   1995,   a
taxpayer who has an average monthly tax liability of $50,000
or more shall make all payments required by rules of the
Department by electronic funds transfer. Beginning October 1,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


2000, a taxpayer who has an annual tax liability of $200,000 or
more   shall      make   all    payments      required   by    rules       of   the
Department by electronic funds transfer. The term "annual tax
liability" shall be the sum of the taxpayer's liabilities
under this Act, and under all other State and local occupation
and use tax laws administered by the Department, for the
immediately preceding calendar year. The term "average monthly
tax liability" means the sum of the taxpayer's liabilities
under this Act, and under all other State and local occupation
and use tax laws administered by the Department, for the
immediately preceding calendar year divided by 12. Beginning
on October 1, 2002, a taxpayer who has a tax liability in the
amount set forth in subsection (b) of Section 2505-210 of the
Department of Revenue Law shall make all payments required by
rules of the Department by electronic funds transfer.
    Before     August    1     of   each    year   beginning   in    1993,      the
Department     shall     notify      all    taxpayers    required      to       make
payments by electronic funds transfer. All taxpayers required
to make payments by electronic funds transfer shall make those
payments for a minimum of one year beginning on October 1.
    Any taxpayer not required to make payments by electronic
funds transfer may make payments by electronic funds transfer
with the permission of the Department.
    All taxpayers required to make payment by electronic funds
transfer and any taxpayers authorized to voluntarily make
payments     by    electronic       funds    transfer    shall      make    those
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


payments in the manner authorized by the Department.
      The Department shall adopt such rules as are necessary to
effectuate a program of electronic funds transfer and the
requirements of this Section.
      Where a serviceman collects the tax with respect to the
selling price of tangible personal property which he sells and
the    purchaser     thereafter   returns     such     tangible    personal
property and the serviceman refunds the selling price thereof
to the purchaser, such serviceman shall also refund, to the
purchaser, the tax so collected from the purchaser. When
filing his return for the period in which he refunds such tax
to the purchaser, the serviceman may deduct the amount of the
tax so refunded by him to the purchaser from any other Service
Occupation Tax, Service Use Tax, Retailers' Occupation Tax, or
Use Tax which such serviceman may be required to pay or remit
to the Department, as shown by such return, provided that the
amount of the tax to be deducted shall previously have been
remitted     to    the   Department    by   such     serviceman.     If    the
serviceman shall not previously have remitted the amount of
such   tax   to    the   Department,   he   shall    be   entitled    to    no
deduction hereunder upon refunding such tax to the purchaser.
      If experience indicates such action to be practicable, the
Department may prescribe and furnish a combination or joint
return which will enable servicemen, who are required to file
returns hereunder and also under the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act, the Use Tax Act, or the Service Use Tax Act, to furnish
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


all the return information required by all said Acts on the one
form.
    Where the serviceman has more than one business registered
with the Department under separate registrations hereunder,
such    serviceman    shall      file     separate    returns      for     each
registered business.
    The net revenue realized at the 15% rate under either
Section 4 or Section 5 of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, as
incorporated into this Act by Section 12, shall be deposited
as follows: (i) notwithstanding the provisions of this Section
to the contrary, the net revenue realized from the portion of
the rate in excess of 5% shall be deposited into the State and
Local Sales Tax Reform Fund; and (ii) the net revenue realized
from the 5% portion of the rate shall be deposited as provided
in this Section for the 5% portion of the 6.25% general rate
imposed under this Act.
    Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the Local Government Tax Fund the revenue realized
for the preceding month from the 1% tax imposed under this Act.
    Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the County and Mass Transit District Fund 4% of the
revenue    realized   for    the      preceding    month   from    the    6.25%
general rate on sales of tangible personal property other than
aviation    fuel   sold     on   or    after   December    1,     2019.    This
exception for aviation fuel only applies for so long as the
revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


47133 are binding on the State.
      Beginning August 1, 2000, each month the Department shall
pay into the County and Mass Transit District Fund 20% of the
net revenue realized for the preceding month from the 1.25%
rate on the selling price of motor fuel and gasohol.
      Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the Local Government Tax Fund 16% of the revenue
realized for the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate
on transfers of tangible personal property other than aviation
fuel sold on or after December 1, 2019. This exception for
aviation fuel only applies for so long as the revenue use
requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133 are
binding on the State.
      For aviation fuel sold on or after December 1, 2019, each
month the Department shall pay into the State Aviation Program
Fund 20% of the net revenue realized for the preceding month
from the 6.25% general rate on the selling price of aviation
fuel,   less   an     amount    estimated   by    the   Department   to    be
required for refunds of the 20% portion of the tax on aviation
fuel under this Act, which amount shall be deposited into the
Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund. The Department shall only
pay   moneys   into    the     State   Aviation    Program   Fund   and   the
Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund under this Act for so long
as the revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49
U.S.C. 47133 are binding on the State.
      Beginning August 1, 2000, each month the Department shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


pay into the Local Government Tax Fund 80% of the net revenue
realized for the preceding month from the 1.25% rate on the
selling price of motor fuel and gasohol.
     Beginning October 1, 2009 and through June 30, 2026, each
month the Department shall pay into the Capital Projects Fund
an   amount    that   is   equal   to   an   amount   estimated     by   the
Department to represent 80% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the sale of candy, grooming and
hygiene products, and soft drinks that had been taxed at a rate
of 1% prior to September 1, 2009, but that are now taxed at
6.25%.
     Beginning July 1, 2013, each month the Department shall
pay into the Underground Storage Tank Fund from the proceeds
collected under this Act, the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax
Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act an amount equal to
the average monthly deficit in the Underground Storage Tank
Fund during the prior year, as certified annually by the
Illinois      Environmental   Protection      Agency,   but   the    total
payment into the Underground Storage Tank Fund under this Act,
the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, and the Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act shall not exceed $18,000,000 in any State
fiscal year. As used in this paragraph, the "average monthly
deficit" shall be equal to the difference between the average
monthly claims for payment by the fund and the average monthly
revenues deposited into the fund, excluding payments made
pursuant to this paragraph.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      Beginning July 1, 2015, of the remainder of the moneys
received by the Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service
Use Tax Act, this Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act,
each month the Department shall deposit $500,000 into the
State Crime Laboratory Fund.
      Of the remainder of the moneys received by the Department
pursuant to this Act, (a) 1.75% thereof shall be paid into the
Build Illinois Fund and (b) prior to July 1, 1989, 2.2% and on
and after July 1, 1989, 3.8% thereof shall be paid into the
Build Illinois Fund; provided, however, that if in any fiscal
year the sum of (1) the aggregate of 2.2% or 3.8%, as the case
may be, of the moneys received by the Department and required
to be paid into the Build Illinois Fund pursuant to Section 3
of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, Section 9 of the Use Tax
Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, and Section 9 of the
Service Occupation Tax Act, such Acts being hereinafter called
the "Tax Acts" and such aggregate of 2.2% or 3.8%, as the case
may   be,   of   moneys   being   hereinafter   called   the   "Tax   Act
Amount", and (2) the amount transferred to the Build Illinois
Fund from the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund shall be
less than the Annual Specified Amount (as defined in Section 3
of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act), an amount equal to the
difference shall be immediately paid into the Build Illinois
Fund from other moneys received by the Department pursuant to
the Tax Acts; and further provided, that if on the last
business day of any month the sum of (1) the Tax Act Amount
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


required to be deposited into the Build Illinois Account in
the Build Illinois Fund during such month and (2) the amount
transferred during such month to the Build Illinois Fund from
the State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund shall have been less
than 1/12 of the Annual Specified Amount, an amount equal to
the   difference   shall     be   immediately       paid    into   the   Build
Illinois Fund from other moneys received by the Department
pursuant to the Tax Acts; and, further provided, that in no
event shall the payments required under the preceding proviso
result in aggregate payments into the Build Illinois Fund
pursuant to this clause (b) for any fiscal year in excess of
the greater of (i) the Tax Act Amount or (ii) the Annual
Specified Amount for such fiscal year; and, further provided,
that the amounts payable into the Build Illinois Fund under
this clause (b) shall be payable only until such time as the
aggregate    amount     on   deposit      under    each    trust   indenture
securing Bonds issued and outstanding pursuant to the Build
Illinois Bond Act is sufficient, taking into account any
future investment income, to fully provide, in accordance with
such indenture, for the defeasance of or the payment of the
principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds
secured by such indenture and on any Bonds expected to be
issued thereafter and all fees and costs payable with respect
thereto, all as certified by the Director of the Bureau of the
Budget (now Governor's Office of Management and Budget). If on
the   last   business    day   of   any    month    in     which   Bonds   are
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


outstanding pursuant to the Build Illinois Bond Act, the
aggregate of the moneys deposited into the Build Illinois Bond
Account in the Build Illinois Fund in such month shall be less
than the amount required to be transferred in such month from
the Build Illinois Bond Account to the Build Illinois Bond
Retirement and Interest Fund pursuant to Section 13 of the
Build Illinois Bond Act, an amount equal to such deficiency
shall be immediately paid from other moneys received by the
Department pursuant to the Tax Acts to the Build Illinois
Fund; provided, however, that any amounts paid to the Build
Illinois Fund in any fiscal year pursuant to this sentence
shall be deemed to constitute payments pursuant to clause (b)
of     the   preceding   sentence    and   shall     reduce   the    amount
otherwise payable for such fiscal year pursuant to clause (b)
of     the   preceding   sentence.   The    moneys    received      by   the
Department pursuant to this Act and required to be deposited
into the Build Illinois Fund are subject to the pledge, claim
and charge set forth in Section 12 of the Build Illinois Bond
Act.
     Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois Fund
as provided in the preceding paragraph or in any amendment
thereto hereafter enacted, the following specified monthly
installment of the amount requested in the certificate of the
Chairman of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
provided under Section 8.25f of the State Finance Act, but not
in excess of the sums designated as "Total Deposit", shall be
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


deposited in the aggregate from collections under Section 9 of
the Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, Section
9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, and Section 3 of the
Retailers'   Occupation    Tax   Act   into   the   McCormick   Place
Expansion Project Fund in the specified fiscal years.


             Fiscal Year                               Total Deposit
                  1993                                            $0
                  1994                                   53,000,000
                  1995                                   58,000,000
                  1996                                   61,000,000
                  1997                                   64,000,000
                  1998                                   68,000,000
                  1999                                   71,000,000
                  2000                                   75,000,000
                  2001                                   80,000,000
                  2002                                   93,000,000
                  2003                                   99,000,000
                  2004                                  103,000,000
                  2005                                  108,000,000
                  2006                                  113,000,000
                  2007                                  119,000,000
                  2008                                  126,000,000
                  2009                                  132,000,000
                  2010                                  139,000,000
                  2011                                  146,000,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


                  2012               153,000,000
                  2013               161,000,000
                  2014               170,000,000
                  2015               179,000,000
                  2016               189,000,000
                  2017               199,000,000
                  2018               210,000,000
                  2019               221,000,000
                  2020               233,000,000
                  2021               300,000,000
                  2022               300,000,000
                  2023               300,000,000
                  2024               300,000,000
                  2025               300,000,000
                  2026               300,000,000
                  2027               375,000,000
                  2028               375,000,000
                  2029               375,000,000
                  2030               375,000,000
                  2031               375,000,000
                  2032               375,000,000
                  2033               375,000,000
                  2034               375,000,000
                  2035               375,000,000
                  2036               450,000,000
                  and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


               each fiscal year
           thereafter that bonds
           are outstanding under
            Section 13.2 of the
           Metropolitan Pier and
        Exposition Authority Act,
  but not after fiscal year 2060.
      Beginning July 20, 1993 and in each month of each fiscal
year thereafter, one-eighth of the amount requested in the
certificate of the Chairman of the Metropolitan Pier and
Exposition Authority for that fiscal year, less the amount
deposited into the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund by
the State Treasurer in the respective month under subsection
(g) of Section 13 of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition
Authority Act, plus cumulative deficiencies in the deposits
required under this Section for previous months and years,
shall be deposited into the McCormick Place Expansion Project
Fund, until the full amount requested for the fiscal year, but
not   in    excess   of   the   amount   specified     above   as   "Total
Deposit", has been deposited.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Capital Projects
Fund,    the    Build   Illinois   Fund,   and   the   McCormick    Place
Expansion Project Fund pursuant to the preceding paragraphs or
in any amendments thereto hereafter enacted, for aviation fuel
sold on or after December 1, 2019, the Department shall each
month deposit into the Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund an
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


amount estimated by the Department to be required for refunds
of the 80% portion of the tax on aviation fuel under this Act.
The Department shall only deposit moneys into the Aviation
Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund under this paragraph for so long as
the revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49
U.S.C. 47133 are binding on the State.
    Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois Fund
and the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund pursuant to the
preceding paragraphs or in any amendments thereto hereafter
enacted, beginning July 1, 1993 and ending on September 30,
2013, the Department shall each month pay into the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund 0.27% of 80% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate on the selling
price of tangible personal property.
    Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois
Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, and the
Illinois   Tax    Increment   Fund   pursuant   to   the   preceding
paragraphs or in any amendments to this Section hereafter
enacted, beginning on the first day of the first calendar
month to occur on or after August 26, 2014 (the effective date
of Public Act 98-1098), each month, from the collections made
under Section 9 of the Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service
Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, and
Section 3 of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, the Department
shall pay into the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund, to
be used, subject to appropriation, to fund additional auditors
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


and compliance personnel at the Department of Revenue, an
amount equal to 1/12 of 5% of 80% of the cash receipts
collected during the preceding fiscal year by the Audit Bureau
of the Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax
Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, the Retailers' Occupation
Tax   Act,    and      associated    local      occupation     and   use      taxes
administered by the Department.
      Subject to payments of amounts into the Build Illinois
Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax Compliance and Administration
Fund as provided in this Section, beginning on July 1, 2018 the
Department shall pay each month into the Downstate Public
Transportation Fund the moneys required to be so paid under
Section 2-3 of the Downstate Public Transportation Act.
      Subject     to    successful       execution     and    delivery     of    a
public-private agreement between the public agency and private
entity and completion of the civic build, beginning on July 1,
2023,    of     the    remainder    of    the     moneys     received    by     the
Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and this Act, the Department shall
deposit the following specified deposits in the aggregate from
collections under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act, as required under Section 8.25g of the State Finance Act
for     distribution        consistent          with   the      Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


The moneys received by the Department pursuant to this Act and
required   to     be    deposited       into    the      Civic    and    Transit
Infrastructure Fund are subject to the pledge, claim and
charge   set    forth    in   Section    25-55     of    the     Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
As used in this paragraph, "civic build", "private entity",
"public-private        agreement",   and       "public    agency"       have   the
meanings   provided      in   Section    25-10     of    the     Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
         Fiscal Year ............................                 Total Deposit
         2024 .................................... $200,000,000
         2025 .................................... $206,000,000
         2026 .................................... $212,200,000
         2027 .................................... $218,500,000
         2028 .................................... $225,100,000
         2029 .................................... $288,700,000
         2030 .................................... $298,900,000
         2031 .................................... $309,300,000
         2032 .................................... $320,100,000
         2033 .................................... $331,200,000
         2034 .................................... $341,200,000
         2035 .................................... $351,400,000
         2036 .................................... $361,900,000
         2037 .................................... $372,800,000
         2038 .................................... $384,000,000
         2039 .................................... $395,500,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


         2040 .................................... $407,400,000
         2041 .................................... $419,600,000
         2042 .................................... $432,200,000
         2043 .................................... $445,100,000
      Beginning July 1, 2021 and until July 1, 2022, subject to
the   payment    of   amounts       into    the   County      and   Mass   Transit
District   Fund,      the    Local       Government     Tax   Fund,     the    Build
Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the
Illinois   Tax    Increment         Fund,   and    the    Tax    Compliance     and
Administration        Fund     as    provided      in     this      Section,    the
Department shall pay each month into the Road Fund the amount
estimated to represent 16% of the net revenue realized from
the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol. Beginning July 1,
2022 and until July 1, 2023, subject to the payment of amounts
into the County and Mass Transit District Fund, the Local
Government Tax Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick
Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund,
and the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund as provided in
this Section, the Department shall pay each month into the
Road Fund the amount estimated to represent 32% of the net
revenue realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and
gasohol.   Beginning         July   1,    2023    and    until   July    1,    2024,
subject to the payment of amounts into the County and Mass
Transit District Fund, the Local Government Tax Fund, the
Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project
Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax Compliance
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


and Administration Fund as provided in this Section, the
Department shall pay each month into the Road Fund the amount
estimated to represent 48% of the net revenue realized from
the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol. Beginning July 1,
2024 and until July 1, 2026, subject to the payment of amounts
into the County and Mass Transit District Fund, the Local
Government Tax Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick
Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund,
and the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund as provided in
this Section, the Department shall pay each month into the
Road Fund the amount estimated to represent 64% of the net
revenue realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and
gasohol. Beginning on July 1, 2026, subject to the payment of
amounts into the County and Mass Transit District Fund, the
Local   Government     Tax   Fund,   the   Build    Illinois   Fund,    the
McCormick     Place   Expansion   Project    Fund,    the   Illinois    Tax
Increment Fund, and the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund
as provided in this Section, the Department shall pay each
month into the Public Transportation Fund and the Downstate
Public Transportation Fund the amount estimated to represent
80% of the net revenue realized from the taxes imposed on motor
fuel    and   gasohol.   Those    moneys    shall    be   apportioned    as
follows: 85% into the Public Transportation Fund and 15% into
the Downstate Public Transportation Fund. As used in this
paragraph "motor fuel" has the meaning given to that term in
Section 1.1 of the Motor Fuel Tax Law, and "gasohol" has the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


meaning given to that term in Section 3-40 of the Use Tax Act.
      Until   July   1,   2025,   of     the   remainder   of    the   moneys
received by the Department pursuant to this Act, 75% shall be
paid into the General Revenue Fund of the State treasury and
25% shall be reserved in a special account and used only for
the transfer to the Common School Fund as part of the monthly
transfer from the General Revenue Fund in accordance with
Section 8a of the State Finance Act. Beginning July 1, 2025, of
the   remainder      of   the   moneys    received   by    the   Department
pursuant to this Act, 75% shall be deposited into the General
Revenue Fund and 25% shall be deposited into the Common School
Fund.
      The Department may, upon separate written notice to a
taxpayer, require the taxpayer to prepare and file with the
Department on a form prescribed by the Department within not
less than 60 days after receipt of the notice an annual
information return for the tax year specified in the notice.
Such annual return to the Department shall include a statement
of gross receipts as shown by the taxpayer's last federal
income tax return. If the total receipts of the business as
reported in the federal income tax return do not agree with the
gross receipts reported to the Department of Revenue for the
same period, the taxpayer shall attach to his annual return a
schedule showing a reconciliation of the 2 amounts and the
reasons for the difference. The taxpayer's annual return to
the Department shall also disclose the cost of goods sold by
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the taxpayer during the year covered by such return, opening
and closing inventories of such goods for such year, cost of
goods used from stock or taken from stock and given away by the
taxpayer     during      such     year,     payroll      information     of    the
taxpayer's      business       during     such    year    and    any   additional
reasonable information which the Department deems would be
helpful in determining the accuracy of the monthly, quarterly
or annual returns filed by such taxpayer as hereinbefore
provided for in this Section.
    If the annual information return required by this Section
is not filed when and as required, the taxpayer shall be liable
as follows:
         (i) Until       January 1,        1994,     the taxpayer shall         be
    liable for a penalty equal to 1/6 of 1% of the tax due from
    such taxpayer under this Act during the period to be
    covered by the annual return for each month or fraction of
    a   month    until     such    return    is    filed    as    required,    the
    penalty to be assessed and collected in the same manner as
    any other penalty provided for in this Act.
         (ii) On and after January 1, 1994, the taxpayer shall
    be liable for a penalty as described in Section 3-4 of the
    Uniform Penalty and Interest Act.
    The chief executive officer, proprietor, owner, or highest
ranking manager shall sign the annual return to certify the
accuracy of the information contained therein. Any person who
willfully     signs      the    annual      return       containing    false    or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


inaccurate information shall be guilty of perjury and punished
accordingly.     The    annual     return    form      prescribed   by    the
Department shall include a warning that the person signing the
return may be liable for perjury.
      The   foregoing    portion   of   this   Section       concerning   the
filing of an annual information return shall not apply to a
serviceman who is not required to file an income tax return
with the United States Government.
      As soon as possible after the first day of each month, upon
certification of the Department of Revenue, the Comptroller
shall order transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer from
the General Revenue Fund to the Motor Fuel Tax Fund an amount
equal to 1.7% of 80% of the net revenue realized under this Act
for the second preceding month. Beginning April 1, 2000, this
transfer is no longer required and shall not be made.
      Net revenue realized for a month shall be the revenue
collected by the State pursuant to this Act, less the amount
paid   out    during    that   month    as   refunds    to   taxpayers    for
overpayment of liability.
      For greater simplicity of administration, it shall be
permissible for manufacturers, importers and wholesalers whose
products are sold by numerous servicemen in Illinois, and who
wish to do so, to assume the responsibility for accounting and
paying to the Department all tax accruing under this Act with
respect to such sales, if the servicemen who are affected do
not    make   written     objection     to   the    Department      to    this
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


arrangement.
(Source:   P.A.    103-9,    eff.    6-7-23;    103-363,      eff.    7-28-23;
103-592, eff. 6-7-24; 103-605, eff. 7-1-24; 104-6, Article 5,
Section 5-20, eff. 6-16-25; 104-6, Article 25, Section 25-15,
eff. 6-16-25; 104-6, Article 35, Section 35-30, eff. 6-16-25;
104-457, eff. 6-1-26.)


    Section 5-70. The Retailers' Occupation Tax Act is amended
by changing Section 3 as follows:


    (35 ILCS 120/3)
    (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-457)
    Sec. 3. Except as provided in this Section, on or before
the twentieth day of each calendar month, every person engaged
in the business of selling, which, on and after January 1,
2025, includes leasing, tangible personal property at retail
in this State during the preceding calendar month shall file a
return with the Department, stating:
        1. The name of the seller;
        2.   His    residence       address    and   the    address    of   his
    principal      place    of   business     and    the    address    of   the
    principal      place    of   business     (if    that   is   a   different
    address) from which he engages in the business of selling
    tangible personal property at retail in this State;
        3. Total amount of receipts received by him during the
    preceding calendar month or quarter, as the case may be,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    from   sales   of   tangible    personal    property,     and   from
    services furnished, by him during such preceding calendar
    month or quarter;
        4. Total amount received by him during the preceding
    calendar month or quarter on charge and time sales of
    tangible personal property, and from services furnished,
    by him prior to the month or quarter for which the return
    is filed;
        5. Deductions allowed by law;
        6. Gross receipts which were received by him during
    the preceding calendar month or quarter and upon the basis
    of which the tax is imposed, including gross receipts on
    food for human consumption that is to be consumed off the
    premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages,
    food consisting of or infused with adult use cannabis,
    soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for immediate
    consumption)   which   were    received    during   the   preceding
    calendar month or quarter and upon which tax would have
    been due but for the 0% rate imposed under Public Act
    102-700;
        7. The amount of credit provided in Section 2d of this
    Act;
        8. The amount of tax due, including the amount of tax
    that would have been due on food for human consumption
    that is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold
    (other than alcoholic beverages, food consisting of or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    infused with adult use cannabis, soft drinks, and food
    that has been prepared for immediate consumption) but for
    the 0% rate imposed under Public Act 102-700;
          9. The signature of the taxpayer; and
          10.   Such     other   reasonable     information      as   the
    Department may require.
    In the case of leases, except as otherwise provided in
this Act, the lessor must remit for each tax return period only
the tax applicable to that part of the selling price actually
received during such tax return period.
    On and after January 1, 2018, except for returns required
to be filed prior to January 1, 2023 for motor vehicles,
watercraft, aircraft, and trailers that are required to be
registered with an agency of this State, with respect to
retailers whose annual gross receipts average $20,000 or more,
all returns required to be filed pursuant to this Act shall be
filed electronically. On and after January 1, 2023, with
respect   to    retailers   whose   annual    gross   receipts   average
$20,000 or more, all returns required to be filed pursuant to
this Act, including, but not limited to, returns for motor
vehicles, watercraft, aircraft, and trailers that are required
to be registered with an agency of this State, shall be filed
electronically. Retailers who demonstrate that they do not
have access to the Internet or demonstrate hardship in filing
electronically     may   petition   the   Department    to    waive   the
electronic filing requirement.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    If a taxpayer fails to sign a return within 30 days after
the proper notice and demand for signature by the Department,
the return shall be considered valid and any amount shown to be
due on the return shall be deemed assessed.
    Each return shall be    accompanied by the statement of
prepaid tax issued pursuant to Section 2e for which credit is
claimed.
    Prior to October 1, 2003 and on and after September 1,
2004, a retailer may accept a Manufacturer's Purchase Credit
certification from a purchaser in satisfaction of Use Tax as
provided in Section 3-85 of the Use Tax Act if the purchaser
provides the appropriate documentation as required by Section
3-85 of the Use Tax Act. A Manufacturer's Purchase Credit
certification, accepted by a retailer prior to October 1, 2003
and on and after September 1, 2004 as provided in Section 3-85
of the Use Tax Act, may be used by that retailer to satisfy
Retailers' Occupation Tax liability in the amount claimed in
the certification, not to exceed 6.25% of the receipts subject
to tax from a qualifying purchase. A Manufacturer's Purchase
Credit reported on any original or amended return filed under
this Act after October 20, 2003 for reporting periods prior to
September 1, 2004 shall be disallowed. Manufacturer's Purchase
Credit reported on annual returns due on or after January 1,
2005 will be disallowed for periods prior to September 1,
2004. No Manufacturer's Purchase Credit may be used after
September 30, 2003 through August 31, 2004 to satisfy any tax
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


liability    imposed     under      this   Act,     including      any    audit
liability.
    Beginning on July 1, 2023 and through December 31, 2032, a
retailer    may   accept     a   Sustainable      Aviation    Fuel   Purchase
Credit certification from an air common carrier-purchaser in
satisfaction      of   Use   Tax   on   aviation    fuel     as   provided     in
Section 3-87 of the Use Tax Act if the purchaser provides the
appropriate documentation as required by Section 3-87 of the
Use Tax Act. A Sustainable Aviation Fuel Purchase Credit
certification accepted by a retailer in accordance with this
paragraph may be used by that retailer to satisfy Retailers'
Occupation Tax liability (but not in satisfaction of penalty
or interest) in the amount claimed in the certification, not
to exceed 6.25% of the receipts subject to tax from a sale of
aviation fuel. In addition, for a sale of aviation fuel to
qualify to earn the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Purchase Credit,
retailers    must      retain      in   their     books    and     records     a
certification from the producer of the aviation fuel that the
aviation fuel sold by the retailer and for which a sustainable
aviation fuel purchase credit was earned meets the definition
of sustainable aviation fuel under Section 3-87 of the Use Tax
Act. The documentation must include detail sufficient for the
Department to determine the number of gallons of sustainable
aviation fuel sold.
    The    Department    may     require   returns    to     be   filed   on   a
quarterly basis. If so required, a return for each calendar
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


quarter shall be filed on or before the twentieth day of the
calendar month following the end of such calendar quarter. The
taxpayer shall also file a return with the Department for each
of the first 2 months of each calendar quarter, on or before
the twentieth day of the following calendar month, stating:
         1. The name of the seller;
         2. The address of the principal place of business from
    which he engages in            the business of selling         tangible
    personal property at retail in this State;
         3. The total amount of taxable receipts received by
    him during the preceding calendar month from sales of
    tangible personal property by him during such preceding
    calendar month, including receipts from charge and time
    sales, but less all deductions allowed by law;
         4. The amount of credit provided in Section 2d of this
    Act;
         5. The amount of tax due; and
         6. Such other reasonable information as the Department
    may require.
    Every person engaged in the business of selling aviation
fuel at retail in this State during the preceding calendar
month shall, instead of reporting and paying tax as otherwise
required by this Section, report and pay such tax on a separate
aviation fuel tax return. The requirements related to the
return   shall   be   as    otherwise    provided     in   this    Section.
Notwithstanding    any     other    provisions   of   this   Act    to   the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


contrary,      retailers   selling   aviation    fuel   shall   file   all
aviation fuel tax returns and shall make all aviation fuel tax
payments by electronic means in the manner and form required
by the Department. For purposes of this Section, "aviation
fuel" means jet fuel and aviation gasoline.
    Beginning on October 1, 2003, any person who is not a
licensed distributor, importing distributor, or manufacturer,
as defined in the Liquor Control Act of 1934, but is engaged in
the business of selling, at retail, alcoholic liquor shall
file a statement with the Department of Revenue, in a format
and at a time prescribed by the Department, showing the total
amount    paid    for   alcoholic    liquor     purchased   during     the
preceding month and such other information as is reasonably
required by the Department. The Department may adopt rules to
require that this statement be filed in an electronic or
telephonic format. Such rules may provide for exceptions from
the filing requirements of this paragraph. For the purposes of
this paragraph, the term "alcoholic liquor" shall have the
meaning prescribed in the Liquor Control Act of 1934.
    Beginning on October 1, 2003, every distributor, importing
distributor, and manufacturer of alcoholic liquor as defined
in the Liquor Control Act of 1934, shall file a statement with
the Department of Revenue, no later than the 10th day of the
month    for    the   preceding   month   during   which    transactions
occurred, by electronic means, showing the total amount of
gross receipts from the sale of alcoholic liquor sold or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


distributed      during      the    preceding       month       to    purchasers;
identifying the purchaser to whom it was sold or distributed;
the   purchaser's     tax    registration       number;         and   such   other
information      reasonably        required     by     the       Department.      A
distributor,      importing        distributor,       or     manufacturer         of
alcoholic liquor must personally deliver, mail, or provide by
electronic    means     to   each    retailer       listed      on    the   monthly
statement a report containing a cumulative total of that
distributor's,      importing       distributor's,         or    manufacturer's
total sales of alcoholic liquor to that retailer no later than
the 10th day of the month for the preceding month during which
the     transaction       occurred.     The     distributor,            importing
distributor, or manufacturer shall notify the retailer as to
the method by which the distributor, importing distributor, or
manufacturer     will     provide     the    sales    information.          If   the
retailer    is   unable      to    receive    the    sales      information       by
electronic means, the distributor, importing distributor, or
manufacturer shall furnish the sales information by personal
delivery or by mail. For purposes of this paragraph, the term
"electronic means" includes, but is not limited to, the use of
a secure Internet website, e-mail, or facsimile.
      If a total amount of less than $1 is payable, refundable or
creditable, such amount shall be disregarded if it is less
than 50 cents and shall be increased to $1 if it is 50 cents or
more.
      Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act to the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


contrary, retailers subject to tax on cannabis shall file all
cannabis tax returns and shall make all cannabis tax payments
by electronic means in the manner and form required by the
Department.
    Beginning October 1, 1993, a taxpayer who has an average
monthly tax liability of $150,000 or more shall make all
payments required by rules of the Department by electronic
funds transfer. Beginning October 1, 1994, a taxpayer who has
an average monthly tax liability of $100,000 or more shall
make all payments required by rules of the Department by
electronic     funds   transfer.   Beginning   October    1,    1995,   a
taxpayer who has an average monthly tax liability of $50,000
or more shall make all payments required by rules of the
Department by electronic funds transfer. Beginning October 1,
2000, a taxpayer who has an annual tax liability of $200,000 or
more   shall   make    all   payments   required   by   rules   of   the
Department by electronic funds transfer. The term "annual tax
liability" shall be the sum of the taxpayer's liabilities
under this Act, and under all other State and local occupation
and use tax laws administered by the Department, for the
immediately preceding calendar year. The term "average monthly
tax liability" shall be the sum of the taxpayer's liabilities
under this Act, and under all other State and local occupation
and use tax laws administered by the Department, for the
immediately preceding calendar year divided by 12. Beginning
on October 1, 2002, a taxpayer who has a tax liability in the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


amount set forth in subsection (b) of Section 2505-210 of the
Department of Revenue Law shall make all payments required by
rules of the Department by electronic funds transfer.
    Before    August   1   of   each    year   beginning   in    1993,   the
Department    shall    notify    all    taxpayers    required     to     make
payments by electronic funds transfer. All taxpayers required
to make payments by electronic funds transfer shall make those
payments for a minimum of one year beginning on October 1.
    Any taxpayer not required to make payments by electronic
funds transfer may make payments by electronic funds transfer
with the permission of the Department.
    All taxpayers required to make payment by electronic funds
transfer and any taxpayers authorized to voluntarily make
payments     by   electronic    funds    transfer    shall      make   those
payments in the manner authorized by the Department.
    The Department shall adopt such rules as are necessary to
effectuate a program of electronic funds transfer and the
requirements of this Section.
    Any amount which is required to be shown or reported on any
return or other document under this Act shall, if such amount
is not a whole-dollar amount, be increased to the nearest
whole-dollar amount in any case where the fractional part of a
dollar is 50 cents or more, and decreased to the nearest
whole-dollar amount where the fractional part of a dollar is
less than 50 cents.
    If the retailer is otherwise required to file a monthly
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


return and if the retailer's average monthly tax liability to
the   Department    does   not   exceed    $200,    the    Department    may
authorize his returns to be filed on a quarter annual basis,
with the return for January, February, and March of a given
year being due by April 20 of such year; with the return for
April, May, and June of a given year being due by July 20 of
such year; with the return for July, August, and September of a
given year being due by October 20 of such year, and with the
return for October, November, and December of a given year
being due by January 20 of the following year.
      If the retailer is otherwise required to file a monthly or
quarterly return and if the retailer's average monthly tax
liability    with    the   Department     does    not    exceed   $50,   the
Department may authorize his returns to be filed on an annual
basis, with the return for a given year being due by January 20
of the following year.
      Such quarter annual and annual returns, as to form and
substance,   shall    be   subject   to    the    same    requirements    as
monthly returns.
      Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act concerning
the time within which a retailer may file his return, in the
case of any retailer who ceases to engage in a kind of business
which makes him responsible for filing returns under this Act,
such retailer shall file a final return under this Act with the
Department not more than one month after discontinuing such
business.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      Where       the   same      person      has   more   than    one    business
registered with the Department under separate registrations
under this Act, such person may not file each return that is
due    as     a    single        return    covering    all      such     registered
businesses, but shall file separate returns for each such
registered business.
      In addition, with respect to motor vehicles, watercraft,
aircraft, and trailers that are required to be registered with
an agency of this State, except as otherwise provided in this
Section, every retailer selling this kind of tangible personal
property shall file, with the Department, upon a form to be
prescribed and supplied by the Department, a separate return
for each such item of tangible personal property which the
retailer sells, except that if, in the same transaction, (i) a
retailer of aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicles, or trailers
transfers more than one aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicle,
or trailer to another aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicle
retailer, or trailer retailer for the purpose of resale or
(ii) a retailer of aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicles, or
trailers transfers more than one aircraft, watercraft, motor
vehicle, or trailer to a purchaser for use as a qualifying
rolling stock as provided in Section 2-5 of this Act, then that
seller may report the transfer of all aircraft, watercraft,
motor vehicles, or trailers involved in that transaction to
the    Department          on    the    same    uniform    invoice-transaction
reporting         return        form.   For    purposes    of     this     Section,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


"watercraft" means a Class 2, Class 3, or Class 4 watercraft as
defined in Section 3-2 of the Boat Registration and Safety
Act, a personal watercraft, or any boat equipped with an
inboard motor.
    In addition, with respect to motor vehicles, watercraft,
aircraft, and trailers that are required to be registered with
an agency of this State, every person who is engaged in the
business   of   leasing     or   renting    such     items    and    who,      in
connection    with   such   business,      sells   any   such      item   to   a
retailer for the purpose of resale is, notwithstanding any
other provision of this Section to the contrary, authorized to
meet the return-filing requirement of this Act by reporting
the transfer of all the aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicles,
or trailers transferred for resale during a month to the
Department on the same uniform invoice-transaction reporting
return form on or before the 20th of the month following the
month in which the transfer takes place. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Act to the contrary, all returns filed
under this paragraph must be filed by electronic means in the
manner and form as required by the Department.
    Any retailer who sells only motor vehicles, watercraft,
aircraft, or trailers that are required to be registered with
an agency of this State, so that all retailers' occupation tax
liability is required to be reported, and is reported, on such
transaction     reporting    returns    and    who    is     not    otherwise
required to file monthly or quarterly returns, need not file
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


monthly or quarterly returns. However, those retailers shall
be required to file returns on an annual basis.
    The transaction reporting return, in the case of motor
vehicles or trailers that are required to be registered with
an agency of this State, shall be the same document as the
Uniform Invoice referred to in Section 5-402 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code and must show the name and address of the seller;
the name and address of the purchaser; the amount of the
selling price including the amount allowed by the retailer for
traded-in property, if any; the amount allowed by the retailer
for the traded-in tangible personal property, if any, to the
extent to which Section 1 of this Act allows an exemption for
the value of traded-in property; the balance payable after
deducting   such   trade-in    allowance    from    the   total   selling
price; the amount of tax due from the retailer with respect to
such   transaction;   the     amount   of   tax    collected   from   the
purchaser by the retailer on such transaction (or satisfactory
evidence that such tax is not due in that particular instance,
if that is claimed to be the fact); the place and date of the
sale; a sufficient identification of the property sold; such
other information as is required in Section 5-402 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, and such other information as the
Department may reasonably require.
    The transaction reporting return in the case of watercraft
or aircraft must show the name and address of the seller; the
name and address of the purchaser; the amount of the selling
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


price    including    the   amount    allowed         by   the    retailer     for
traded-in property, if any; the amount allowed by the retailer
for the traded-in tangible personal property, if any, to the
extent to which Section 1 of this Act allows an exemption for
the value of traded-in property; the balance payable after
deducting   such     trade-in    allowance      from       the    total   selling
price; the amount of tax due from the retailer with respect to
such    transaction;    the     amount     of   tax    collected        from   the
purchaser by the retailer on such transaction (or satisfactory
evidence that such tax is not due in that particular instance,
if that is claimed to be the fact); the place and date of the
sale, a sufficient identification of the property sold, and
such    other   information     as   the    Department           may   reasonably
require.
    Such transaction reporting return shall be filed not later
than 20 days after the day of delivery of the item that is
being sold, but may be filed by the retailer at any time sooner
than that if he chooses to do so. The transaction reporting
return and tax remittance or proof of exemption from the
Illinois use tax may be transmitted to the Department by way of
the State agency with which, or State officer with whom the
tangible personal property must be titled or registered (if
titling or registration is required) if the Department and
such agency or State officer determine that this procedure
will expedite the processing of applications for title or
registration.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    With each such transaction reporting return, the retailer
shall remit the proper amount of tax due (or shall submit
satisfactory evidence that the sale is not taxable if that is
the case), to the Department or its agents, whereupon the
Department shall issue, in the purchaser's name, a use tax
receipt (or a certificate of exemption if the Department is
satisfied that the particular sale is tax-exempt tax exempt)
which such purchaser may submit to the agency with which, or
State   officer   with   whom,   he   must   title   or   register   the
tangible personal property that is involved (if titling or
registration   is   required)    in   support   of   such   purchaser's
application for an Illinois certificate or other evidence of
title or registration to such tangible personal property.
    No retailer's failure or refusal to remit tax under this
Act precludes a user, who has paid the proper tax to the
retailer, from obtaining his certificate of title or other
evidence of title or registration (if titling or registration
is required) upon satisfying the Department that such user has
paid the proper tax (if tax is due) to the retailer. The
Department shall adopt appropriate rules to carry out the
mandate of this paragraph.
    If the user who would otherwise pay tax to the retailer
wants the transaction reporting return filed and the payment
of the tax or proof of exemption made to the Department before
the retailer is willing to take these actions and such user has
not paid the tax to the retailer, such user may certify to the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


fact of such delay by the retailer and may (upon the Department
being satisfied of the truth of such certification) transmit
the information required by the transaction reporting return
and the remittance for tax or proof of exemption directly to
the    Department    and     obtain    his    tax    receipt       or   exemption
determination, in which event the transaction reporting return
and tax remittance (if a tax payment was required) shall be
credited by the Department to the proper retailer's account
with    the   Department,      but    without       the     vendor's     discount
provided for in this Section being allowed. When the user pays
the tax directly to the Department, he shall pay the tax in the
same amount and in the same form in which it would be remitted
if the tax had been remitted to the Department by the retailer.
      On and after January 1, 2025, with respect to the lease of
trailers, other than semitrailers as defined in Section 1-187
of    the   Illinois    Vehicle      Code,    that    are     required      to    be
registered with an agency of this State and that are subject to
the tax on lease receipts under this Act, notwithstanding any
other provision of this Act to the contrary, for the purpose of
reporting     and   paying    tax     under   this     Act    on    those    lease
receipts,     lessors   shall     file   returns       in    addition       to   and
separate from the transaction reporting return. Lessors shall
file those lease returns and make payment to the Department by
electronic means on or before the 20th day of each month
following the month, quarter, or year, as applicable, in which
lease receipts were received. All lease receipts received by
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the lessor from the lease of those trailers during the same
reporting period shall be reported and tax shall be paid on a
single return form to be prescribed by the Department.
      Refunds made by the seller during the preceding return
period to purchasers, on account of tangible personal property
returned to the seller, shall be allowed as a deduction under
subdivision 5 of his monthly or quarterly return, as the case
may   be,   in     case   the   seller    had    theretofore          included   the
receipts from the sale of such tangible personal property in a
return filed by him and had paid the tax imposed by this Act
with respect to such receipts.
      Where the seller is a corporation, the return filed on
behalf of such corporation shall be signed by the president,
vice-president, secretary, or treasurer or by the properly
accredited agent of such corporation.
      Where the seller is a limited liability company, the
return filed on behalf of the limited liability company shall
be signed by a manager, member, or properly accredited agent
of the limited liability company.
      Except as provided in this Section, the retailer filing
the return under this Section shall, at the time of filing such
return, pay to the Department the amount of tax imposed by this
Act less a discount of 2.1% prior to January 1, 1990 and 1.75%
on    and   after    January    1,   1990,      or   $5    per      calendar   year,
whichever     is    greater,    which    is     allowed        to   reimburse    the
retailer     for    the    expenses      incurred         in   keeping    records,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying
data to the Department on request. A a certified service
provider, as defined in the Leveling the Playing Field for
Illinois Retail Act, filing the return under this Section on
behalf of a remote retailer or a retailer maintaining a place
of business in this State shall, at the time of such return,
pay to the Department the amount of tax imposed by this Act
less a discount of 1.75%. A remote retailer or a retailer
maintaining    a    place   of   business   in    this   State   using   a
certified service provider to file a return on its behalf, as
provided in the Leveling the Playing Field for Illinois Retail
Act, is not eligible for the discount. Beginning with returns
due on or after January 1, 2025, the vendor's discount allowed
in this Section, the Service Occupation Tax Act, the Use Tax
Act, and the Service Use Tax Act, including any local tax
administered   by    the    Department   and     reported   on   the   same
return, shall not exceed $1,000 per month in the aggregate for
returns other than transaction returns filed during the month.
When determining the discount allowed under this Section,
retailers shall include the amount of tax that would have been
due at the 1% rate but for the 0% rate imposed under Public Act
102-700. When determining the discount allowed under this
Section, retailers shall include the amount of tax that would
have been due at the 6.25% rate but for the 1.25% rate imposed
on sales tax holiday items under Public Act 102-700. The
discount under this Section is not allowed for the 1.25%
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


portion of taxes paid on aviation fuel that is subject to the
revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C.
47133. Any prepayment made pursuant to Section 2d of this Act
shall be included in the amount on which such discount is
computed. In the case of retailers who report and pay the tax
on a transaction by transaction basis, as provided in this
Section, such discount shall be taken with each such tax
remittance instead of when such retailer files his periodic
return, but, beginning with returns due on or after January 1,
2025, the vendor's discount allowed under this Section and the
Use Tax Act, including any local tax administered by the
Department and reported on the same transaction return, shall
not exceed $1,000 per month for all transaction returns filed
during the month. The discount allowed under this Section is
allowed only for returns that are filed in the manner required
by this Act. The Department may disallow the discount for
retailers whose certificate of registration is revoked at the
time   the   return    is   filed,    but   only    if    the   Department's
decision to revoke the certificate of registration has become
final.
    Before October 1, 2000, if the taxpayer's average monthly
tax liability to the Department under this Act, the Use Tax
Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Service Use Tax
Act, excluding any liability for prepaid sales tax to be
remitted     in   accordance   with   Section      2d    of   this   Act,   was
$10,000 or more during the preceding 4 complete calendar
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


quarters, he shall file a return with the Department each
month by the 20th day of the month next following the month
during which such tax liability is incurred and shall make
payments to the Department on or before the 7th, 15th, 22nd and
last day of the month during which such liability is incurred.
On   and   after   October   1,   2000,   if   the   taxpayer's   average
monthly tax liability to the Department under this Act, the
Use Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Service
Use Tax Act, excluding any liability for prepaid sales tax to
be remitted in accordance with Section 2d of this Act, was
$20,000 or more during the preceding 4 complete calendar
quarters, he shall file a return with the Department each
month by the 20th day of the month next following the month
during which such tax liability is incurred and shall make
payment to the Department on or before the 7th, 15th, 22nd and
last day of the month during which such liability is incurred.
If the month during which such tax liability is incurred began
prior to January 1, 1985, each payment shall be in an amount
equal to 1/4 of the taxpayer's actual liability for the month
or an amount set by the Department not to exceed 1/4 of the
average monthly liability of the taxpayer to the Department
for the preceding 4 complete calendar quarters (excluding the
month of highest liability and the month of lowest liability
in such 4 quarter period). If the month during which such tax
liability is incurred begins on or after January 1, 1985 and
prior to January 1, 1987, each payment shall be in an amount
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


equal to 22.5% of the taxpayer's actual liability for the
month   or   27.5%    of     the   taxpayer's     liability   for   the    same
calendar month of the preceding year. If the month during
which   such   tax    liability      is   incurred   begins   on    or    after
January 1, 1987 and prior to January 1, 1988, each payment
shall be in an amount equal to 22.5% of the taxpayer's actual
liability for the month or 26.25% of the taxpayer's liability
for the same calendar month of the preceding year. If the month
during which such tax liability is incurred begins on or after
January 1, 1988, and prior to January 1, 1989, or begins on or
after January 1, 1996, each payment shall be in an amount equal
to 22.5% of the taxpayer's actual liability for the month or
25% of the taxpayer's liability for the same calendar month of
the   preceding      year.    If   the    month   during   which    such   tax
liability is incurred begins on or after January 1, 1989, and
prior to January 1, 1996, each payment shall be in an amount
equal to 22.5% of the taxpayer's actual liability for the
month or 25% of the taxpayer's liability for the same calendar
month of the preceding year or 100% of the taxpayer's actual
liability for the quarter monthly reporting period. The amount
of such quarter monthly payments shall be credited against the
final tax liability of the taxpayer's return for that month.
Before October 1, 2000, once applicable, the requirement of
the making of quarter monthly payments to the Department by
taxpayers having an average monthly tax liability of $10,000
or more as determined in the manner provided above shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


continue until such taxpayer's average monthly liability to
the   Department   during   the   preceding   4   complete   calendar
quarters (excluding the month of highest liability and the
month of lowest liability) is less than $9,000, or until such
taxpayer's average monthly liability to the Department as
computed for each calendar quarter of the 4 preceding complete
calendar quarter period is less than $10,000. However, if a
taxpayer can show the Department that a substantial change in
the taxpayer's business has occurred which causes the taxpayer
to anticipate that his average monthly tax liability for the
reasonably foreseeable future will fall below the $10,000
threshold stated above, then such taxpayer may petition the
Department for a change in such taxpayer's reporting status.
On and after October 1, 2000, once applicable, the requirement
of the making of quarter monthly payments to the Department by
taxpayers having an average monthly tax liability of $20,000
or more as determined in the manner provided above shall
continue until such taxpayer's average monthly liability to
the   Department   during   the   preceding   4   complete   calendar
quarters (excluding the month of highest liability and the
month of lowest liability) is less than $19,000 or until such
taxpayer's average monthly liability to the Department as
computed for each calendar quarter of the 4 preceding complete
calendar quarter period is less than $20,000. However, if a
taxpayer can show the Department that a substantial change in
the taxpayer's business has occurred which causes the taxpayer
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


to anticipate that his average monthly tax liability for the
reasonably foreseeable future will fall below the $20,000
threshold stated above, then such taxpayer may petition the
Department for a change in such taxpayer's reporting status.
The Department shall change such taxpayer's reporting status
unless it finds that such change is seasonal in nature and not
likely to be long term. Quarter monthly payment status shall
be determined under this paragraph as if the rate reduction to
0% in Public Act 102-700 on food for human consumption that is
to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other than
alcoholic beverages, food consisting of or infused with adult
use cannabis, soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) had not occurred. For quarter monthly
payments due under this paragraph on or after July 1, 2023 and
through June 30, 2024, "25% of the taxpayer's liability for
the    same   calendar   month    of   the     preceding    year"    shall   be
determined as if the rate reduction to 0% in Public Act 102-700
had not occurred. Quarter monthly payment status shall be
determined under this paragraph as if the rate reduction to
1.25% in Public Act 102-700 on sales tax holiday items had not
occurred. For quarter monthly payments due on or after July 1,
2023    and   through    June    30,   2024,    "25%   of   the     taxpayer's
liability for the same calendar month of the preceding year"
shall be determined as if the rate reduction to 1.25% in Public
Act 102-700 on sales tax holiday items had not occurred. If any
such quarter monthly payment is not paid at the time or in the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


amount required by this Section, then the taxpayer shall be
liable for penalties and interest on the difference between
the minimum amount due as a payment and the amount of such
quarter    monthly   payment    actually   and   timely   paid,   except
insofar as the taxpayer has previously made payments for that
month to the Department in excess of the minimum payments
previously due as provided in this Section. The Department
shall make reasonable rules and regulations to govern the
quarter monthly payment amount and quarter monthly payment
dates for taxpayers who file on other than a calendar monthly
basis.
    The provisions of this paragraph apply before October 1,
2001. Without regard to whether a taxpayer is required to make
quarter monthly payments as specified above, any taxpayer who
is required by Section 2d of this Act to collect and remit
prepaid taxes and has collected prepaid taxes which average in
excess of $25,000 per month during the preceding 2 complete
calendar quarters, shall file a return with the Department as
required    by   Section   2f   and   shall   make   payments     to   the
Department on or before the 7th, 15th, 22nd and last day of the
month during which such liability is incurred. If the month
during which such tax liability is incurred began prior to
September 1, 1985 (the effective date of Public Act 84-221),
each payment shall be in an amount not less than 22.5% of the
taxpayer's actual liability under Section 2d. If the month
during which such tax liability is incurred begins on or after
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


January 1, 1986, each payment shall be in an amount equal to
22.5% of the taxpayer's actual liability for the month or
27.5% of the taxpayer's liability for the same calendar month
of the preceding calendar year. If the month during which such
tax liability is incurred begins on or after January 1, 1987,
each payment shall be in an amount equal to 22.5% of the
taxpayer's actual liability for the month or 26.25% of the
taxpayer's   liability      for    the   same    calendar   month      of   the
preceding year. The amount of such quarter monthly payments
shall be credited against the final tax liability of the
taxpayer's return for that month filed under this Section or
Section   2f,   as   the    case    may    be.    Once   applicable,        the
requirement of the making of quarter monthly payments to the
Department pursuant to this paragraph shall continue until
such taxpayer's average monthly prepaid tax collections during
the preceding 2 complete calendar quarters is $25,000 or less.
If any such quarter monthly payment is not paid at the time or
in the amount required, the taxpayer shall be liable for
penalties and interest on such difference, except insofar as
the taxpayer has previously made payments for that month in
excess of the minimum payments previously due.
    The   provisions   of    this    paragraph      apply   on   and    after
October 1, 2001. Without regard to whether a taxpayer is
required to make quarter monthly payments as specified above,
any taxpayer who is required by Section 2d of this Act to
collect and remit prepaid taxes and has collected prepaid
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


taxes that average in excess of $20,000 per month during the
preceding 4 complete calendar quarters shall file a return
with the Department as required by Section 2f and shall make
payments to the Department on or before the 7th, 15th, 22nd,
and last day of the month during which the liability is
incurred. Each payment shall be in an amount equal to 22.5% of
the taxpayer's actual liability for the month or 25% of the
taxpayer's   liability       for    the   same    calendar   month   of   the
preceding year. The amount of the quarter monthly payments
shall be credited against the final tax liability of the
taxpayer's return for that month filed under this Section or
Section   2f,    as    the   case    may    be.    Once   applicable,     the
requirement of the making of quarter monthly payments to the
Department pursuant to this paragraph shall continue until the
taxpayer's average monthly prepaid tax collections during the
preceding 4 complete calendar quarters (excluding the month of
highest liability and the month of lowest liability) is less
than   $19,000    or    until      such    taxpayer's     average    monthly
liability to the Department as computed for each calendar
quarter of the 4 preceding complete calendar quarters is less
than $20,000. If any such quarter monthly payment is not paid
at the time or in the amount required, the taxpayer shall be
liable for penalties and interest on such difference, except
insofar as the taxpayer has previously made payments for that
month in excess of the minimum payments previously due.
    If any payment provided for in this Section exceeds the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


taxpayer's liabilities under this Act, the Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Service Use Tax Act, as
shown on an original monthly return, the Department shall, if
requested by the taxpayer, issue to the taxpayer a credit
memorandum no later than 30 days after the date of payment. The
credit evidenced by such credit memorandum may be assigned by
the taxpayer to a similar taxpayer under this Act, the Use Tax
Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, or the Service Use Tax
Act, in accordance with reasonable rules and regulations to be
prescribed by the Department. If no such request is made, the
taxpayer may credit such excess payment against tax liability
subsequently to be remitted to the Department under this Act,
the Use Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, or the Service
Use    Tax   Act,   in   accordance   with    reasonable   rules   and
regulations prescribed by the Department. If the Department
subsequently determined that all or any part of the credit
taken was not actually due to the taxpayer, the taxpayer's
vendor's discount shall be reduced, if necessary, to reflect
the difference between the credit taken and that actually due,
and that taxpayer shall be liable for penalties and interest
on such difference.
      If a retailer of motor fuel is entitled to a credit under
Section 2d of this Act which exceeds the taxpayer's liability
to the Department under this Act for the month for which the
taxpayer is filing a return, the Department shall issue the
taxpayer a credit memorandum for the excess.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    The net revenue realized at the 15% rate under either
Section 4 or Section 5 of this Act shall be deposited as
follows: (i) notwithstanding the provisions of this Section to
the contrary, the net revenue realized from the portion of the
rate in excess of 5% shall be deposited into the State and
Local Sales Tax Reform Fund; and (ii) the net revenue realized
from the 5% portion of the rate shall be deposited as provided
in this Section for the 5% portion of the 6.25% general rate
imposed under this Act.
    Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the Local Government Tax Fund, a special fund in the
State   treasury     which    is    hereby   created,   the   net    revenue
realized for the preceding month from the 1% tax imposed under
this Act.
    Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the County and Mass Transit District Fund, a special
fund in the State treasury which is hereby created, 4% of the
net revenue realized for the preceding month from the 6.25%
general    rate    other    than    aviation   fuel    sold   on   or     after
December    1,    2019.    This    exception   for    aviation     fuel    only
applies for so long as the revenue use requirements of 49
U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133 are binding on the State.
    Beginning August 1, 2000, each month the Department shall
pay into the County and Mass Transit District Fund 20% of the
net revenue realized for the preceding month from the 1.25%
rate on the selling price of motor fuel and gasohol. If, in any
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


month, the tax on sales tax holiday items, as defined in
Section    2-8,    is   imposed      at    the    rate    of    1.25%,    then      the
Department shall pay 20% of the net revenue realized for that
month from the 1.25% rate on the selling price of sales tax
holiday items into the County and Mass Transit District Fund.
      Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the Local Government Tax Fund 16% of the net revenue
realized for the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate
on the selling price of tangible personal property other than
aviation    fuel    sold      on    or    after    December       1,   2019.     This
exception for aviation fuel only applies for so long as the
revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C.
47133 are binding on the State.
      For aviation fuel sold on or after December 1, 2019, each
month the Department shall pay into the State Aviation Program
Fund 20% of the net revenue realized for the preceding month
from the 6.25% general rate on the selling price of aviation
fuel,   less   an     amount       estimated      by   the     Department      to    be
required for refunds of the 20% portion of the tax on aviation
fuel under this Act, which amount shall be deposited into the
Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund. The Department shall only
pay   moneys   into     the    State      Aviation      Program    Fund    and      the
Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund under this Act for so long
as the revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49
U.S.C. 47133 are binding on the State.
      Beginning August 1, 2000, each month the Department shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


pay into the Local Government Tax Fund 80% of the net revenue
realized for the preceding month from the 1.25% rate on the
selling price of motor fuel and gasohol. If, in any month, the
tax on sales tax holiday items, as defined in Section 2-8, is
imposed at the rate of 1.25%, then the Department shall pay 80%
of the net revenue realized for that month from the 1.25% rate
on the selling price of sales tax holiday items into the Local
Government Tax Fund.
     Beginning October 1, 2009 and through June 30, 2026, each
month the Department shall pay into the Capital Projects Fund
an   amount    that   is   equal   to   an   amount      estimated   by   the
Department to represent 80% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the sale of candy, grooming and
hygiene products, and soft drinks that had been taxed at a rate
of 1% prior to September 1, 2009, but that are now taxed at
6.25%.
     Beginning July 1, 2011, each month the Department shall
pay into the Clean Air Act Permit Fund 80% of the net revenue
realized for the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate
on the selling price of sorbents used in Illinois in the
process   of   sorbent     injection    as   used   to    comply   with   the
Environmental Protection Act or the federal Clean Air Act, but
the total payment into the Clean Air Act Permit Fund under this
Act and the Use Tax Act shall not exceed $2,000,000 in any
fiscal year.
     Beginning July 1, 2013, each month the Department shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


pay into the Underground Storage Tank Fund from the proceeds
collected under this Act, the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax
Act, and the Service Occupation Tax Act an amount equal to the
average monthly deficit in the Underground Storage Tank Fund
during the prior year, as certified annually by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency, but the total payment into
the Underground Storage Tank Fund under this Act, the Use Tax
Act, the Service Use Tax Act, and the Service Occupation Tax
Act shall not exceed $18,000,000 in any State fiscal year. As
used in this paragraph, the "average monthly deficit" shall be
equal to the difference between the average monthly claims for
payment by the fund and the average monthly revenues deposited
into   the   fund,   excluding   payments   made   pursuant   to   this
paragraph.
    Beginning July 1, 2015, of the remainder of the moneys
received by the Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service
Use Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, and this Act, each
month the Department shall deposit $500,000 into the State
Crime Laboratory Fund.
    Of the remainder of the moneys received by the Department
pursuant to this Act, (a) 1.75% thereof shall be paid into the
Build Illinois Fund and (b) prior to July 1, 1989, 2.2% and on
and after July 1, 1989, 3.8% thereof shall be paid into the
Build Illinois Fund; provided, however, that if in any fiscal
year the sum of (1) the aggregate of 2.2% or 3.8%, as the case
may be, of the moneys received by the Department and required
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


to be paid into the Build Illinois Fund pursuant to this Act,
Section 9 of the Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax
Act, and Section 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, such Acts
being hereinafter called the "Tax Acts" and such aggregate of
2.2% or 3.8%, as the case may be, of moneys being hereinafter
called the "Tax Act Amount", and (2) the amount transferred to
the Build Illinois Fund from the State and Local Sales Tax
Reform Fund shall be less than the Annual Specified Amount (as
hereinafter defined), an amount equal to the difference shall
be immediately paid into the Build Illinois Fund from other
moneys received by the Department pursuant to the Tax Acts;
the "Annual Specified Amount" means the amounts specified
below for fiscal years 1986 through 1993:
          Fiscal Year              Annual Specified Amount
             1986                           $54,800,000
             1987                           $76,650,000
             1988                           $80,480,000
             1989                           $88,510,000
             1990                        $115,330,000
             1991                        $145,470,000
             1992                        $182,730,000
             1993                       $206,520,000;
and means the Certified Annual Debt Service Requirement (as
defined in Section 13 of the Build Illinois Bond Act) or the
Tax Act Amount, whichever is greater, for fiscal year 1994 and
each fiscal year thereafter; and further provided, that if on
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the last business day of any month the sum of (1) the Tax Act
Amount required to be deposited into the Build Illinois Bond
Account in the Build Illinois Fund during such month and (2)
the amount transferred to the Build Illinois Fund from the
State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund shall have been less than
1/12 of the Annual Specified Amount, an amount equal to the
difference shall be immediately paid into the Build Illinois
Fund from other moneys received by the Department pursuant to
the Tax Acts; and, further provided, that in no event shall the
payments   required   under   the   preceding   proviso   result   in
aggregate payments into the Build Illinois Fund pursuant to
this clause (b) for any fiscal year in excess of the greater of
(i) the Tax Act Amount or (ii) the Annual Specified Amount for
such fiscal year. The amounts payable into the Build Illinois
Fund under clause (b) of the first sentence in this paragraph
shall be payable only until such time as the aggregate amount
on deposit under each trust indenture securing Bonds issued
and outstanding pursuant to the Build Illinois Bond Act is
sufficient, taking into account any future investment income,
to fully provide, in accordance with such indenture, for the
defeasance of or the payment of the principal of, premium, if
any, and interest on the Bonds secured by such indenture and on
any Bonds expected to be issued thereafter and all fees and
costs payable with respect thereto, all as certified by the
Director of the Bureau of the Budget (now Governor's Office of
Management and Budget). If on the last business day of any
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


month in which Bonds are outstanding pursuant to the Build
Illinois Bond Act, the aggregate of moneys deposited into in
the Build Illinois Bond Account in the Build Illinois Fund in
such month shall be less than the amount required to be
transferred in such month from the Build Illinois Bond Account
to   the   Build    Illinois   Bond   Retirement      and   Interest   Fund
pursuant to Section 13 of the Build Illinois Bond Act, an
amount equal to such deficiency shall be immediately paid from
other moneys received by the Department pursuant to the Tax
Acts to the Build Illinois Fund; provided, however, that any
amounts paid to the Build Illinois Fund in any fiscal year
pursuant    to     this   sentence   shall   be    deemed   to   constitute
payments pursuant to clause (b) of the first sentence of this
paragraph and shall reduce the amount otherwise payable for
such fiscal year pursuant to that clause (b). The moneys
received by the Department pursuant to this Act and required
to be deposited into the Build Illinois Fund are subject to the
pledge, claim and charge set forth in Section 12 of the Build
Illinois Bond Act.
     Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois Fund
as provided in the preceding paragraph or in any amendment
thereto hereafter enacted, the following specified monthly
installment of the amount requested in the certificate of the
Chairman of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
provided under Section 8.25f of the State Finance Act, but not
in excess of sums designated as "Total Deposit", shall be
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


deposited in the aggregate from collections under Section 9 of
the Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, Section
9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, and Section 3 of the
Retailers'   Occupation    Tax   Act   into   the   McCormick   Place
Expansion Project Fund in the specified fiscal years.
             Fiscal Year                               Total Deposit
                  1993                                            $0
                  1994                                   53,000,000
                  1995                                   58,000,000
                  1996                                   61,000,000
                  1997                                   64,000,000
                  1998                                   68,000,000
                  1999                                   71,000,000
                  2000                                   75,000,000
                  2001                                   80,000,000
                  2002                                   93,000,000
                  2003                                   99,000,000
                  2004                                  103,000,000
                  2005                                  108,000,000
                  2006                                  113,000,000
                  2007                                  119,000,000
                  2008                                  126,000,000
                  2009                                  132,000,000
                  2010                                  139,000,000
                  2011                                  146,000,000
                  2012                                  153,000,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


                  2013                   161,000,000
                  2014                   170,000,000
                  2015                   179,000,000
                  2016                   189,000,000
                  2017                   199,000,000
                  2018                   210,000,000
                  2019                   221,000,000
                  2020                   233,000,000
                  2021                   300,000,000
                  2022                   300,000,000
                  2023                   300,000,000
                  2024                   300,000,000
                  2025                   300,000,000
                  2026                   300,000,000
                  2027                   375,000,000
                  2028                   375,000,000
                  2029                   375,000,000
                  2030                   375,000,000
                  2031                   375,000,000
                  2032                   375,000,000
                  2033                   375,000,000
                  2034                   375,000,000
                  2035                   375,000,000
                  2036                   450,000,000
                  and
          each fiscal year
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


           thereafter that bonds
           are outstanding under
            Section 13.2 of the
           Metropolitan Pier and
       Exposition Authority Act,
  but not after fiscal year 2060.
      Beginning July 20, 1993 and in each month of each fiscal
year thereafter, one-eighth of the amount requested in the
certificate of the Chairman of the Metropolitan Pier and
Exposition Authority for that fiscal year, less the amount
deposited into the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund by
the State Treasurer in the respective month under subsection
(g) of Section 13 of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition
Authority Act, plus cumulative deficiencies in the deposits
required under this Section for previous months and years,
shall be deposited into the McCormick Place Expansion Project
Fund, until the full amount requested for the fiscal year, but
not   in    excess   of   the   amount   specified   above   as   "Total
Deposit", has been deposited.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Capital Projects
Fund, the Clean Air Act Permit Fund, the Build Illinois Fund,
and the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund pursuant to the
preceding paragraphs or in any amendments thereto hereafter
enacted, for aviation fuel sold on or after December 1, 2019,
the Department shall each month deposit into the Aviation Fuel
Sales Tax Refund Fund an amount estimated by the Department to
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


be required for refunds of the 80% portion of the tax on
aviation   fuel    under     this    Act.    The   Department         shall   only
deposit moneys into the Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund
under   this     paragraph     for     so   long    as    the     revenue     use
requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133 are
binding on the State.
    Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois Fund
and the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund pursuant to the
preceding paragraphs or in any amendments thereto hereafter
enacted, beginning July 1, 1993 and ending on September 30,
2013, the Department shall each month pay into the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund 0.27% of 80% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate on the selling
price of tangible personal property.
    Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois
Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, and the
Illinois   Tax     Increment        Fund    pursuant     to     the    preceding
paragraphs or in any amendments to this Section hereafter
enacted, beginning on the first day of the first calendar
month to occur on or after August 26, 2014 (the effective date
of Public Act 98-1098), each month, from the collections made
under Section 9 of the Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service
Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, and
Section 3 of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, the Department
shall pay into the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund, to
be used, subject to appropriation, to fund additional auditors
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


and compliance personnel at the Department of Revenue, an
amount equal to 1/12 of 5% of 80% of the cash receipts
collected during the preceding fiscal year by the Audit Bureau
of the Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax
Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, the Retailers' Occupation
Tax   Act,    and      associated      local       occupation      and    use       taxes
administered by the Department.
      Subject to payments of amounts into the Build Illinois
Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund, the Energy Infrastructure Fund, and the
Tax Compliance and Administration Fund as provided in this
Section, beginning on July 1, 2018 the Department shall pay
each month into the Downstate Public Transportation Fund the
moneys    required      to   be   so    paid       under   Section       2-3    of    the
Downstate Public Transportation Act.
      Subject     to    successful          execution      and    delivery       of    a
public-private agreement between the public agency and private
entity and completion of the civic build, beginning on July 1,
2023,    of     the    remainder       of    the     moneys      received      by     the
Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and this Act, the Department shall
deposit the following specified deposits in the aggregate from
collections under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act, as required under Section 8.25g of the State Finance Act
for      distribution        consistent            with    the      Public-Private
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
The moneys received by the Department pursuant to this Act and
required   to     be    deposited       into    the      Civic    and    Transit
Infrastructure Fund are subject to the pledge, claim and
charge   set    forth    in   Section    25-55     of    the     Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
As used in this paragraph, "civic build", "private entity",
"public-private        agreement",   and       "public    agency"       have   the
meanings   provided      in   Section    25-10     of    the     Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
         Fiscal Year ............................                 Total Deposit
         2024 .................................... $200,000,000
         2025 .................................... $206,000,000
         2026 .................................... $212,200,000
         2027 .................................... $218,500,000
         2028 .................................... $225,100,000
         2029 .................................... $288,700,000
         2030 .................................... $298,900,000
         2031 .................................... $309,300,000
         2032 .................................... $320,100,000
         2033 .................................... $331,200,000
         2034 .................................... $341,200,000
         2035 .................................... $351,400,000
         2036 .................................... $361,900,000
         2037 .................................... $372,800,000
         2038 .................................... $384,000,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


         2039 .................................... $395,500,000
         2040 .................................... $407,400,000
         2041 .................................... $419,600,000
         2042 .................................... $432,200,000
         2043 .................................... $445,100,000
      Beginning July 1, 2021 and until July 1, 2022, subject to
the   payment    of   amounts       into    the   County      and   Mass   Transit
District   Fund,      the    Local       Government     Tax   Fund,     the    Build
Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the
Illinois   Tax    Increment         Fund,   and    the    Tax    Compliance     and
Administration        Fund     as    provided      in     this      Section,    the
Department shall pay each month into the Road Fund the amount
estimated to represent 16% of the net revenue realized from
the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol. Beginning July 1,
2022 and until July 1, 2023, subject to the payment of amounts
into the County and Mass Transit District Fund, the Local
Government Tax Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick
Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund,
and the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund as provided in
this Section, the Department shall pay each month into the
Road Fund the amount estimated to represent 32% of the net
revenue realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and
gasohol.   Beginning         July   1,    2023    and    until   July    1,    2024,
subject to the payment of amounts into the County and Mass
Transit District Fund, the Local Government Tax Fund, the
Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax Compliance
and Administration Fund as provided in this Section, the
Department shall pay each month into the Road Fund the amount
estimated to represent 48% of the net revenue realized from
the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol. Beginning July 1,
2024 and until July 1, 2026, subject to the payment of amounts
into the County and Mass Transit District Fund, the Local
Government Tax Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick
Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund,
and the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund as provided in
this Section, the Department shall pay each month into the
Road Fund the amount estimated to represent 64% of the net
revenue realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and
gasohol. Beginning on July 1, 2026, subject to the payment of
amounts into the County and Mass Transit District Fund, the
Local   Government    Tax   Fund,     the   Build   Illinois    Fund,   the
McCormick   Place    Expansion    Project     Fund,   the   Illinois    Tax
Increment Fund, and the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund
as provided in this Section, the Department shall pay each
month into the Road Fund the amount estimated to represent 80%
of the net revenue realized from the taxes imposed on motor
fuel and gasohol. As used in this paragraph "motor fuel" has
the meaning given to that term in Section 1.1 of the Motor Fuel
Tax Law, and "gasohol" has the meaning given to that term in
Section 3-40 of the Use Tax Act.
    Until   July    1,   2025,   of   the   remainder   of     the   moneys
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


received by the Department pursuant to this Act, 75% thereof
shall be paid into the State treasury and 25% shall be reserved
in a special account and used only for the transfer to the
Common School Fund as part of the monthly transfer from the
General Revenue Fund in accordance with Section 8a of the
State Finance Act. Beginning July 1, 2025, of the remainder of
the moneys received by the Department pursuant to this Act,
75% shall be deposited into the General Revenue Fund and 25%
shall be deposited into the Common School Fund.
    The Department may, upon separate written notice to a
taxpayer, require the taxpayer to prepare and file with the
Department on a form prescribed by the Department within not
less than 60 days after receipt of the notice an annual
information return for the tax year specified in the notice.
Such annual return to the Department shall include a statement
of gross receipts as shown by the retailer's last federal
income tax return. If the total receipts of the business as
reported in the federal income tax return do not agree with the
gross receipts reported to the Department of Revenue for the
same period, the retailer shall attach to his annual return a
schedule showing a reconciliation of the 2 amounts and the
reasons for the difference. The retailer's annual return to
the Department shall also disclose the cost of goods sold by
the retailer during the year covered by such return, opening
and closing inventories of such goods for such year, costs of
goods used from stock or taken from stock and given away by the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


retailer     during      such     year,     payroll      information     of    the
retailer's      business       during     such    year    and    any   additional
reasonable information which the Department deems would be
helpful in determining the accuracy of the monthly, quarterly,
or annual returns filed by such retailer as provided for in
this Section.
    If the annual information return required by this Section
is not filed when and as required, the taxpayer shall be liable
as follows:
         (i) Until       January 1,        1994,     the taxpayer shall         be
    liable for a penalty equal to 1/6 of 1% of the tax due from
    such taxpayer under this Act during the period to be
    covered by the annual return for each month or fraction of
    a   month    until     such    return    is    filed    as    required,    the
    penalty to be assessed and collected in the same manner as
    any other penalty provided for in this Act.
         (ii) On and after January 1, 1994, the taxpayer shall
    be liable for a penalty as described in Section 3-4 of the
    Uniform Penalty and Interest Act.
    The chief executive officer, proprietor, owner, or highest
ranking manager shall sign the annual return to certify the
accuracy of the information contained therein. Any person who
willfully     signs      the    annual      return       containing    false    or
inaccurate information shall be guilty of perjury and punished
accordingly.      The    annual      return       form    prescribed     by    the
Department shall include a warning that the person signing the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


return may be liable for perjury.
    The provisions of this Section concerning the filing of an
annual information return do not apply to a retailer who is not
required to file an income tax return with the United States
Government.
    As soon as possible after the first day of each month, upon
certification of the Department of Revenue, the Comptroller
shall order transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer from
the General Revenue Fund to the Motor Fuel Tax Fund an amount
equal to 1.7% of 80% of the net revenue realized under this Act
for the second preceding month. Beginning April 1, 2000, this
transfer is no longer required and shall not be made.
    Net revenue realized for a month shall be the revenue
collected by the State pursuant to this Act, less the amount
paid   out   during   that   month   as   refunds   to   taxpayers   for
overpayment of liability.
    For greater simplicity of administration, manufacturers,
importers and wholesalers whose products are sold at retail in
Illinois by numerous retailers, and who wish to do so, may
assume the responsibility for accounting and paying to the
Department all tax accruing under this Act with respect to
such sales, if the retailers who are affected do not make
written objection to the Department to this arrangement.
    Any person who promotes, organizes, or provides retail
selling space for concessionaires or other types of sellers at
the Illinois State Fair, DuQuoin State Fair, county fairs,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


local fairs, art shows, flea markets, and similar exhibitions
or events, including any transient merchant as defined by
Section 2 of the Transient Merchant Act of 1987, is required to
file a report with the Department providing the name of the
merchant's business, the name of the person or persons engaged
in merchant's business, the permanent address and Illinois
Retailers Occupation Tax Registration Number of the merchant,
the dates and location of the event, and other reasonable
information that the Department may require. The report must
be filed not later than the 20th day of the month next
following the month during which the event with retail sales
was held. Any person who fails to file a report required by
this Section commits a business offense and is subject to a
fine not to exceed $250.
    Any person engaged in the business of selling tangible
personal property at retail as a concessionaire or other type
of seller at the Illinois State Fair, county fairs, art shows,
flea   markets,    and   similar   exhibitions      or   events,    or   any
transient merchants, as defined by Section 2 of the Transient
Merchant Act of 1987, may be required to make a daily report of
the amount of such sales to the Department and to make a daily
payment of the full amount of tax due. The Department shall
impose   this     requirement   when   it   finds    that   there    is   a
significant risk of loss of revenue to the State at such an
exhibition or event. Such a finding shall be based on evidence
that a substantial number of concessionaires or other sellers
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


who are not residents of Illinois will be engaging in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail at
the exhibition or event, or other evidence of a significant
risk of loss of revenue to the State. The Department shall
notify   concessionaires          and   other     sellers      affected    by   the
imposition of this requirement. In the absence of notification
by the Department, the concessionaires and other sellers shall
file their returns as otherwise required in this Section.
(Source:   P.A.     103-9,     eff.     6-7-23;    103-154,       eff.    6-30-23;
103-363, eff. 7-28-23; 103-592, Article 75, Section 75-20,
eff.   1-1-25;      103-592,      Article   110,        Section   110-20,       eff.
6-7-24; 103-605, eff. 7-1-24; 103-1055, eff. 12-20-24; 104-6,
Article 5, Section 5-25, eff. 6-16-25; 104-6, Article 25,
Section 25-20, eff. 6-16-25; 104-6, Article 35, Section 35-35,
eff. 6-16-25; revised 1-12-26.)


    (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-457)
    Sec. 3. Except as provided in this Section, on or before
the twentieth day of each calendar month, every person engaged
in the business of selling, which, on and after January 1,
2025, includes leasing, tangible personal property at retail
in this State during the preceding calendar month shall file a
return with the Department, stating:
         1. The name of the seller;
         2.   His    residence        address     and    the   address     of   his
    principal       place    of    business     and      the   address     of   the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    principal   place   of   business   (if     that   is   a   different
    address) from which he engages in the business of selling
    tangible personal property at retail in this State;
        3. Total amount of receipts received by him during the
    preceding calendar month or quarter, as the case may be,
    from   sales   of   tangible     personal    property,      and   from
    services furnished, by him during such preceding calendar
    month or quarter;
        4. Total amount received by him during the preceding
    calendar month or quarter on charge and time sales of
    tangible personal property, and from services furnished,
    by him prior to the month or quarter for which the return
    is filed;
        5. Deductions allowed by law;
        6. Gross receipts which were received by him during
    the preceding calendar month or quarter and upon the basis
    of which the tax is imposed, including gross receipts on
    food for human consumption that is to be consumed off the
    premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages,
    food consisting of or infused with adult use cannabis,
    soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for immediate
    consumption)   which     were   received    during   the    preceding
    calendar month or quarter and upon which tax would have
    been due but for the 0% rate imposed under Public Act
    102-700;
        7. The amount of credit provided in Section 2d of this
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Act;
          8. The amount of tax due, including the amount of tax
    that would have been due on food for human consumption
    that is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold
    (other than alcoholic beverages, food consisting of or
    infused with adult use cannabis, soft drinks, and food
    that has been prepared for immediate consumption) but for
    the 0% rate imposed under Public Act 102-700;
          9. The signature of the taxpayer; and
          10.   Such   other    reasonable     information      as   the
    Department may require.
    In the case of leases, except as otherwise provided in
this Act, the lessor must remit for each tax return period only
the tax applicable to that part of the selling price actually
received during such tax return period.
    On and after January 1, 2018, except for returns required
to be filed prior to January 1, 2023 for motor vehicles,
watercraft, aircraft, and trailers that are required to be
registered with an agency of this State, with respect to
retailers whose annual gross receipts average $20,000 or more,
all returns required to be filed pursuant to this Act shall be
filed electronically. On and after January 1, 2023, with
respect    to   retailers   whose   annual   gross   receipts   average
$20,000 or more, all returns required to be filed pursuant to
this Act, including, but not limited to, returns for motor
vehicles, watercraft, aircraft, and trailers that are required
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


to be registered with an agency of this State, shall be filed
electronically. Retailers who demonstrate that they do not
have access to the Internet or demonstrate hardship in filing
electronically    may   petition   the   Department   to   waive   the
electronic filing requirement.
    If a taxpayer fails to sign a return within 30 days after
the proper notice and demand for signature by the Department,
the return shall be considered valid and any amount shown to be
due on the return shall be deemed assessed.
    Each return shall be      accompanied by the statement of
prepaid tax issued pursuant to Section 2e for which credit is
claimed.
    Prior to October 1, 2003 and on and after September 1,
2004, a retailer may accept a Manufacturer's Purchase Credit
certification from a purchaser in satisfaction of Use Tax as
provided in Section 3-85 of the Use Tax Act if the purchaser
provides the appropriate documentation as required by Section
3-85 of the Use Tax Act. A Manufacturer's Purchase Credit
certification, accepted by a retailer prior to October 1, 2003
and on and after September 1, 2004 as provided in Section 3-85
of the Use Tax Act, may be used by that retailer to satisfy
Retailers' Occupation Tax liability in the amount claimed in
the certification, not to exceed 6.25% of the receipts subject
to tax from a qualifying purchase. A Manufacturer's Purchase
Credit reported on any original or amended return filed under
this Act after October 20, 2003 for reporting periods prior to
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


September 1, 2004 shall be disallowed. Manufacturer's Purchase
Credit reported on annual returns due on or after January 1,
2005 will be disallowed for periods prior to September 1,
2004. No Manufacturer's Purchase Credit may be used after
September 30, 2003 through August 31, 2004 to satisfy any tax
liability    imposed     under      this   Act,     including      any   audit
liability.
    Beginning on July 1, 2023 and through December 31, 2032, a
retailer    may   accept     a   Sustainable      Aviation    Fuel   Purchase
Credit certification from an air common carrier-purchaser in
satisfaction      of   Use   Tax   on   aviation    fuel     as   provided   in
Section 3-87 of the Use Tax Act if the purchaser provides the
appropriate documentation as required by Section 3-87 of the
Use Tax Act. A Sustainable Aviation Fuel Purchase Credit
certification accepted by a retailer in accordance with this
paragraph may be used by that retailer to satisfy Retailers'
Occupation Tax liability (but not in satisfaction of penalty
or interest) in the amount claimed in the certification, not
to exceed 6.25% of the receipts subject to tax from a sale of
aviation fuel. In addition, for a sale of aviation fuel to
qualify to earn the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Purchase Credit,
retailers    must      retain      in   their     books    and     records   a
certification from the producer of the aviation fuel that the
aviation fuel sold by the retailer and for which a sustainable
aviation fuel purchase credit was earned meets the definition
of sustainable aviation fuel under Section 3-87 of the Use Tax
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Act. The documentation must include detail sufficient for the
Department to determine the number of gallons of sustainable
aviation fuel sold.
    The    Department   may   require   returns   to   be   filed   on   a
quarterly basis. If so required, a return for each calendar
quarter shall be filed on or before the twentieth day of the
calendar month following the end of such calendar quarter. The
taxpayer shall also file a return with the Department for each
of the first 2 months of each calendar quarter, on or before
the twentieth day of the following calendar month, stating:
          1. The name of the seller;
          2. The address of the principal place of business from
    which he engages in        the business of selling         tangible
    personal property at retail in this State;
          3. The total amount of taxable receipts received by
    him during the preceding calendar month from sales of
    tangible personal property by him during such preceding
    calendar month, including receipts from charge and time
    sales, but less all deductions allowed by law;
          4. The amount of credit provided in Section 2d of this
    Act;
          5. The amount of tax due; and
          6. Such other reasonable information as the Department
    may require.
    Every person engaged in the business of selling aviation
fuel at retail in this State during the preceding calendar
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


month shall, instead of reporting and paying tax as otherwise
required by this Section, report and pay such tax on a separate
aviation fuel tax return. The requirements related to the
return   shall   be    as    otherwise   provided      in    this    Section.
Notwithstanding    any      other   provisions    of   this    Act    to   the
contrary,   retailers       selling   aviation    fuel      shall   file   all
aviation fuel tax returns and shall make all aviation fuel tax
payments by electronic means in the manner and form required
by the Department. For purposes of this Section, "aviation
fuel" means jet fuel and aviation gasoline.
    Beginning on October 1, 2003, any person who is not a
licensed distributor, importing distributor, or manufacturer,
as defined in the Liquor Control Act of 1934, but is engaged in
the business of selling, at retail, alcoholic liquor shall
file a statement with the Department of Revenue, in a format
and at a time prescribed by the Department, showing the total
amount   paid    for   alcoholic      liquor     purchased      during     the
preceding month and such other information as is reasonably
required by the Department. The Department may adopt rules to
require that this statement be filed in an electronic or
telephonic format. Such rules may provide for exceptions from
the filing requirements of this paragraph. For the purposes of
this paragraph, the term "alcoholic liquor" shall have the
meaning prescribed in the Liquor Control Act of 1934.
    Beginning on October 1, 2003, every distributor, importing
distributor, and manufacturer of alcoholic liquor as defined
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


in the Liquor Control Act of 1934, shall file a statement with
the Department of Revenue, no later than the 10th day of the
month    for    the    preceding       month     during    which         transactions
occurred, by electronic means, showing the total amount of
gross receipts from the sale of alcoholic liquor sold or
distributed         during      the    preceding       month       to     purchasers;
identifying the purchaser to whom it was sold or distributed;
the   purchaser's       tax     registration       number;         and    such   other
information         reasonably        required     by     the       Department.      A
distributor,         importing        distributor,       or     manufacturer         of
alcoholic liquor must personally deliver, mail, or provide by
electronic      means      to   each    retailer       listed      on    the   monthly
statement a report containing a cumulative total of that
distributor's,        importing        distributor's,         or    manufacturer's
total sales of alcoholic liquor to that retailer no later than
the 10th day of the month for the preceding month during which
the     transaction          occurred.     The     distributor,             importing
distributor, or manufacturer shall notify the retailer as to
the method by which the distributor, importing distributor, or
manufacturer        will     provide     the    sales    information.          If   the
retailer       is   unable      to    receive    the    sales      information       by
electronic means, the distributor, importing distributor, or
manufacturer shall furnish the sales information by personal
delivery or by mail. For purposes of this paragraph, the term
"electronic means" includes, but is not limited to, the use of
a secure Internet website, e-mail, or facsimile.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    If a total amount of less than $1 is payable, refundable or
creditable, such amount shall be disregarded if it is less
than 50 cents and shall be increased to $1 if it is 50 cents or
more.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act to the
contrary, retailers subject to tax on cannabis shall file all
cannabis tax returns and shall make all cannabis tax payments
by electronic means in the manner and form required by the
Department.
    Beginning October 1, 1993, a taxpayer who has an average
monthly tax liability of $150,000 or more shall make all
payments required by rules of the Department by electronic
funds transfer. Beginning October 1, 1994, a taxpayer who has
an average monthly tax liability of $100,000 or more shall
make all payments required by rules of the Department by
electronic      funds   transfer.   Beginning   October    1,    1995,   a
taxpayer who has an average monthly tax liability of $50,000
or more shall make all payments required by rules of the
Department by electronic funds transfer. Beginning October 1,
2000, a taxpayer who has an annual tax liability of $200,000 or
more    shall   make    all   payments   required   by   rules   of   the
Department by electronic funds transfer. The term "annual tax
liability" shall be the sum of the taxpayer's liabilities
under this Act, and under all other State and local occupation
and use tax laws administered by the Department, for the
immediately preceding calendar year. The term "average monthly
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


tax liability" shall be the sum of the taxpayer's liabilities
under this Act, and under all other State and local occupation
and use tax laws administered by the Department, for the
immediately preceding calendar year divided by 12. Beginning
on October 1, 2002, a taxpayer who has a tax liability in the
amount set forth in subsection (b) of Section 2505-210 of the
Department of Revenue Law shall make all payments required by
rules of the Department by electronic funds transfer.
    Before    August   1   of   each    year   beginning   in    1993,   the
Department    shall    notify    all    taxpayers    required     to     make
payments by electronic funds transfer. All taxpayers required
to make payments by electronic funds transfer shall make those
payments for a minimum of one year beginning on October 1.
    Any taxpayer not required to make payments by electronic
funds transfer may make payments by electronic funds transfer
with the permission of the Department.
    All taxpayers required to make payment by electronic funds
transfer and any taxpayers authorized to voluntarily make
payments     by   electronic    funds    transfer    shall      make   those
payments in the manner authorized by the Department.
    The Department shall adopt such rules as are necessary to
effectuate a program of electronic funds transfer and the
requirements of this Section.
    Any amount which is required to be shown or reported on any
return or other document under this Act shall, if such amount
is not a whole-dollar amount, be increased to the nearest
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


whole-dollar amount in any case where the fractional part of a
dollar is 50 cents or more, and decreased to the nearest
whole-dollar amount where the fractional part of a dollar is
less than 50 cents.
      If the retailer is otherwise required to file a monthly
return and if the retailer's average monthly tax liability to
the   Department    does   not   exceed    $200,    the    Department    may
authorize his returns to be filed on a quarter annual basis,
with the return for January, February, and March of a given
year being due by April 20 of such year; with the return for
April, May, and June of a given year being due by July 20 of
such year; with the return for July, August, and September of a
given year being due by October 20 of such year, and with the
return for October, November, and December of a given year
being due by January 20 of the following year.
      If the retailer is otherwise required to file a monthly or
quarterly return and if the retailer's average monthly tax
liability    with    the   Department     does    not    exceed   $50,   the
Department may authorize his returns to be filed on an annual
basis, with the return for a given year being due by January 20
of the following year.
      Such quarter annual and annual returns, as to form and
substance,   shall    be   subject   to    the    same    requirements    as
monthly returns.
      Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act concerning
the time within which a retailer may file his return, in the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


case of any retailer who ceases to engage in a kind of business
which makes him responsible for filing returns under this Act,
such retailer shall file a final return under this Act with the
Department not more than one month after discontinuing such
business.
      Where       the   same    person    has   more    than   one    business
registered with the Department under separate registrations
under this Act, such person may not file each return that is
due    as     a    single      return    covering    all   such      registered
businesses, but shall file separate returns for each such
registered business.
      In addition, with respect to motor vehicles, watercraft,
aircraft, and trailers that are required to be registered with
an agency of this State, except as otherwise provided in this
Section, every retailer selling this kind of tangible personal
property shall file, with the Department, upon a form to be
prescribed and supplied by the Department, a separate return
for each such item of tangible personal property which the
retailer sells, except that if, in the same transaction, (i) a
retailer of aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicles, or trailers
transfers more than one aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicle,
or trailer to another aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicle
retailer, or trailer retailer for the purpose of resale or
(ii) a retailer of aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicles, or
trailers transfers more than one aircraft, watercraft, motor
vehicle, or trailer to a purchaser for use as a qualifying
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


rolling stock as provided in Section 2-5 of this Act, then that
seller may report the transfer of all aircraft, watercraft,
motor vehicles, or trailers involved in that transaction to
the    Department     on     the   same   uniform     invoice-transaction
reporting    return        form.   For    purposes     of     this   Section,
"watercraft" means a Class 2, Class 3, or Class 4 watercraft as
defined in Section 3-2 of the Boat Registration and Safety
Act, a personal watercraft, or any boat equipped with an
inboard motor.
      In addition, with respect to motor vehicles, watercraft,
aircraft, and trailers that are required to be registered with
an agency of this State, every person who is engaged in the
business    of   leasing      or   renting    such    items    and   who,      in
connection   with     such    business,      sells   any    such   item   to   a
retailer for the purpose of resale is, notwithstanding any
other provision of this Section to the contrary, authorized to
meet the return-filing requirement of this Act by reporting
the transfer of all the aircraft, watercraft, motor vehicles,
or trailers transferred for resale during a month to the
Department on the same uniform invoice-transaction reporting
return form on or before the 20th of the month following the
month in which the transfer takes place. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Act to the contrary, all returns filed
under this paragraph must be filed by electronic means in the
manner and form as required by the Department.
      Any retailer who sells only motor vehicles, watercraft,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


aircraft, or trailers that are required to be registered with
an agency of this State, so that all retailers' occupation tax
liability is required to be reported, and is reported, on such
transaction   reporting     returns    and    who    is    not   otherwise
required to file monthly or quarterly returns, need not file
monthly or quarterly returns. However, those retailers shall
be required to file returns on an annual basis.
    The transaction reporting return, in the case of motor
vehicles or trailers that are required to be registered with
an agency of this State, shall be the same document as the
Uniform Invoice referred to in Section 5-402 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code and must show the name and address of the seller;
the name and address of the purchaser; the amount of the
selling price including the amount allowed by the retailer for
traded-in property, if any; the amount allowed by the retailer
for the traded-in tangible personal property, if any, to the
extent to which Section 1 of this Act allows an exemption for
the value of traded-in property; the balance payable after
deducting   such   trade-in    allowance     from    the   total   selling
price; the amount of tax due from the retailer with respect to
such   transaction;   the     amount   of    tax    collected    from   the
purchaser by the retailer on such transaction (or satisfactory
evidence that such tax is not due in that particular instance,
if that is claimed to be the fact); the place and date of the
sale; a sufficient identification of the property sold; such
other information as is required in Section 5-402 of the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Illinois Vehicle Code, and such other information as the
Department may reasonably require.
    The transaction reporting return in the case of watercraft
or aircraft must show the name and address of the seller; the
name and address of the purchaser; the amount of the selling
price    including    the   amount    allowed         by   the    retailer     for
traded-in property, if any; the amount allowed by the retailer
for the traded-in tangible personal property, if any, to the
extent to which Section 1 of this Act allows an exemption for
the value of traded-in property; the balance payable after
deducting   such     trade-in    allowance      from       the    total   selling
price; the amount of tax due from the retailer with respect to
such    transaction;    the     amount     of   tax    collected        from   the
purchaser by the retailer on such transaction (or satisfactory
evidence that such tax is not due in that particular instance,
if that is claimed to be the fact); the place and date of the
sale, a sufficient identification of the property sold, and
such    other   information     as   the    Department           may   reasonably
require.
    Such transaction reporting return shall be filed not later
than 20 days after the day of delivery of the item that is
being sold, but may be filed by the retailer at any time sooner
than that if he chooses to do so. The transaction reporting
return and tax remittance or proof of exemption from the
Illinois use tax may be transmitted to the Department by way of
the State agency with which, or State officer with whom the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


tangible personal property must be titled or registered (if
titling or registration is required) if the Department and
such agency or State officer determine that this procedure
will expedite the processing of applications for title or
registration.
    With each such transaction reporting return, the retailer
shall remit the proper amount of tax due (or shall submit
satisfactory evidence that the sale is not taxable if that is
the case), to the Department or its agents, whereupon the
Department shall issue, in the purchaser's name, a use tax
receipt (or a certificate of exemption if the Department is
satisfied that the particular sale is tax-exempt) which such
purchaser   may   submit   to    the   agency    with   which,   or   State
officer with whom, he must title or register the tangible
personal property that is involved (if titling or registration
is required) in support of such purchaser's application for an
Illinois    certificate     or     other   evidence       of     title   or
registration to such tangible personal property.
    No retailer's failure or refusal to remit tax under this
Act precludes a user, who has paid the proper tax to the
retailer, from obtaining his certificate of title or other
evidence of title or registration (if titling or registration
is required) upon satisfying the Department that such user has
paid the proper tax (if tax is due) to the retailer. The
Department shall adopt appropriate rules to carry out the
mandate of this paragraph.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      If the user who would otherwise pay tax to the retailer
wants the transaction reporting return filed and the payment
of the tax or proof of exemption made to the Department before
the retailer is willing to take these actions and such user has
not paid the tax to the retailer, such user may certify to the
fact of such delay by the retailer and may (upon the Department
being satisfied of the truth of such certification) transmit
the information required by the transaction reporting return
and the remittance for tax or proof of exemption directly to
the    Department    and     obtain    his    tax    receipt       or   exemption
determination, in which event the transaction reporting return
and tax remittance (if a tax payment was required) shall be
credited by the Department to the proper retailer's account
with    the   Department,      but    without       the     vendor's     discount
provided for in this Section being allowed. When the user pays
the tax directly to the Department, he shall pay the tax in the
same amount and in the same form in which it would be remitted
if the tax had been remitted to the Department by the retailer.
      On and after January 1, 2025, with respect to the lease of
trailers, other than semitrailers as defined in Section 1-187
of    the   Illinois    Vehicle      Code,    that    are     required      to    be
registered with an agency of this State and that are subject to
the tax on lease receipts under this Act, notwithstanding any
other provision of this Act to the contrary, for the purpose of
reporting     and   paying    tax     under   this     Act    on    those    lease
receipts,     lessors   shall     file   returns       in    addition       to   and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


separate from the transaction reporting return. Lessors shall
file those lease returns and make payment to the Department by
electronic means on or before the 20th day of each month
following the month, quarter, or year, as applicable, in which
lease receipts were received. All lease receipts received by
the lessor from the lease of those trailers during the same
reporting period shall be reported and tax shall be paid on a
single return form to be prescribed by the Department.
      Refunds made by the seller during the preceding return
period to purchasers, on account of tangible personal property
returned to the seller, shall be allowed as a deduction under
subdivision 5 of his monthly or quarterly return, as the case
may   be,   in   case   the   seller   had   theretofore   included   the
receipts from the sale of such tangible personal property in a
return filed by him and had paid the tax imposed by this Act
with respect to such receipts.
      Where the seller is a corporation, the return filed on
behalf of such corporation shall be signed by the president,
vice-president, secretary, or treasurer or by the properly
accredited agent of such corporation.
      Where the seller is a limited liability company, the
return filed on behalf of the limited liability company shall
be signed by a manager, member, or properly accredited agent
of the limited liability company.
      Except as provided in this Section, the retailer filing
the return under this Section shall, at the time of filing such
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


return, pay to the Department the amount of tax imposed by this
Act less a discount of 2.1% prior to January 1, 1990 and 1.75%
on   and    after      January     1,   1990,     or    $5       per   calendar      year,
whichever     is       greater,    which     is    allowed        to    reimburse     the
retailer     for       the   expenses        incurred        in    keeping     records,
preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying
data   to    the       Department       on   request.        A    certified     service
provider, as defined in the Leveling the Playing Field for
Illinois Retail Act, filing the return under this Section on
behalf of a remote retailer or a retailer maintaining a place
of business in this State shall, at the time of such return,
pay to the Department the amount of tax imposed by this Act
less a discount of 1.75%. A remote retailer or a retailer
maintaining        a     place    of    business       in    this      State   using    a
certified service provider to file a return on its behalf, as
provided in the Leveling the Playing Field for Illinois Retail
Act, is not eligible for the discount. Beginning with returns
due on or after January 1, 2025, the vendor's discount allowed
in this Section, the Service Occupation Tax Act, the Use Tax
Act, and the Service Use Tax Act, including any local tax
administered        by    the    Department       and       reported     on    the    same
return, shall not exceed $1,000 per month in the aggregate for
returns other than transaction returns filed during the month.
When determining the discount allowed under this Section,
retailers shall include the amount of tax that would have been
due at the 1% rate but for the 0% rate imposed under Public Act
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


102-700. When determining the discount allowed under this
Section, retailers shall include the amount of tax that would
have been due at the 6.25% rate but for the 1.25% rate imposed
on sales tax holiday items under Public Act 102-700. The
discount under this Section is not allowed for the 1.25%
portion of taxes paid on aviation fuel that is subject to the
revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C.
47133. Any prepayment made pursuant to Section 2d of this Act
shall be included in the amount on which such discount is
computed. In the case of retailers who report and pay the tax
on a transaction by transaction basis, as provided in this
Section, such discount shall be taken with each such tax
remittance instead of when such retailer files his periodic
return, but, beginning with returns due on or after January 1,
2025, the vendor's discount allowed under this Section and the
Use Tax Act, including any local tax administered by the
Department and reported on the same transaction return, shall
not exceed $1,000 per month for all transaction returns filed
during the month. The discount allowed under this Section is
allowed only for returns that are filed in the manner required
by this Act. The Department may disallow the discount for
retailers whose certificate of registration is revoked at the
time   the   return   is   filed,   but   only   if   the   Department's
decision to revoke the certificate of registration has become
final.
    Before October 1, 2000, if the taxpayer's average monthly
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


tax liability to the Department under this Act, the Use Tax
Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Service Use Tax
Act, excluding any liability for prepaid sales tax to be
remitted    in     accordance    with   Section    2d   of   this    Act,   was
$10,000 or more during the preceding 4 complete calendar
quarters, he shall file a return with the Department each
month by the 20th day of the month next following the month
during which such tax liability is incurred and shall make
payments to the Department on or before the 7th, 15th, 22nd and
last day of the month during which such liability is incurred.
On   and   after    October     1,   2000,   if   the   taxpayer's    average
monthly tax liability to the Department under this Act, the
Use Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Service
Use Tax Act, excluding any liability for prepaid sales tax to
be remitted in accordance with Section 2d of this Act, was
$20,000 or more during the preceding 4 complete calendar
quarters, he shall file a return with the Department each
month by the 20th day of the month next following the month
during which such tax liability is incurred and shall make
payment to the Department on or before the 7th, 15th, 22nd and
last day of the month during which such liability is incurred.
If the month during which such tax liability is incurred began
prior to January 1, 1985, each payment shall be in an amount
equal to 1/4 of the taxpayer's actual liability for the month
or an amount set by the Department not to exceed 1/4 of the
average monthly liability of the taxpayer to the Department
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


for the preceding 4 complete calendar quarters (excluding the
month of highest liability and the month of lowest liability
in such 4 quarter period). If the month during which such tax
liability is incurred begins on or after January 1, 1985 and
prior to January 1, 1987, each payment shall be in an amount
equal to 22.5% of the taxpayer's actual liability for the
month   or   27.5%    of     the   taxpayer's     liability   for   the    same
calendar month of the preceding year. If the month during
which   such   tax    liability      is   incurred   begins   on    or    after
January 1, 1987 and prior to January 1, 1988, each payment
shall be in an amount equal to 22.5% of the taxpayer's actual
liability for the month or 26.25% of the taxpayer's liability
for the same calendar month of the preceding year. If the month
during which such tax liability is incurred begins on or after
January 1, 1988, and prior to January 1, 1989, or begins on or
after January 1, 1996, each payment shall be in an amount equal
to 22.5% of the taxpayer's actual liability for the month or
25% of the taxpayer's liability for the same calendar month of
the   preceding      year.    If   the    month   during   which    such   tax
liability is incurred begins on or after January 1, 1989, and
prior to January 1, 1996, each payment shall be in an amount
equal to 22.5% of the taxpayer's actual liability for the
month or 25% of the taxpayer's liability for the same calendar
month of the preceding year or 100% of the taxpayer's actual
liability for the quarter monthly reporting period. The amount
of such quarter monthly payments shall be credited against the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


final tax liability of the taxpayer's return for that month.
Before October 1, 2000, once applicable, the requirement of
the making of quarter monthly payments to the Department by
taxpayers having an average monthly tax liability of $10,000
or more as determined in the manner provided above shall
continue until such taxpayer's average monthly liability to
the   Department   during   the   preceding   4   complete   calendar
quarters (excluding the month of highest liability and the
month of lowest liability) is less than $9,000, or until such
taxpayer's average monthly liability to the Department as
computed for each calendar quarter of the 4 preceding complete
calendar quarter period is less than $10,000. However, if a
taxpayer can show the Department that a substantial change in
the taxpayer's business has occurred which causes the taxpayer
to anticipate that his average monthly tax liability for the
reasonably foreseeable future will fall below the $10,000
threshold stated above, then such taxpayer may petition the
Department for a change in such taxpayer's reporting status.
On and after October 1, 2000, once applicable, the requirement
of the making of quarter monthly payments to the Department by
taxpayers having an average monthly tax liability of $20,000
or more as determined in the manner provided above shall
continue until such taxpayer's average monthly liability to
the   Department   during   the   preceding   4   complete   calendar
quarters (excluding the month of highest liability and the
month of lowest liability) is less than $19,000 or until such
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


taxpayer's average monthly liability to the Department as
computed for each calendar quarter of the 4 preceding complete
calendar quarter period is less than $20,000. However, if a
taxpayer can show the Department that a substantial change in
the taxpayer's business has occurred which causes the taxpayer
to anticipate that his average monthly tax liability for the
reasonably foreseeable future will fall below the $20,000
threshold stated above, then such taxpayer may petition the
Department for a change in such taxpayer's reporting status.
The Department shall change such taxpayer's reporting status
unless it finds that such change is seasonal in nature and not
likely to be long term. Quarter monthly payment status shall
be determined under this paragraph as if the rate reduction to
0% in Public Act 102-700 on food for human consumption that is
to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other than
alcoholic beverages, food consisting of or infused with adult
use cannabis, soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) had not occurred. For quarter monthly
payments due under this paragraph on or after July 1, 2023 and
through June 30, 2024, "25% of the taxpayer's liability for
the   same   calendar   month   of   the   preceding   year"   shall   be
determined as if the rate reduction to 0% in Public Act 102-700
had not occurred. Quarter monthly payment status shall be
determined under this paragraph as if the rate reduction to
1.25% in Public Act 102-700 on sales tax holiday items had not
occurred. For quarter monthly payments due on or after July 1,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


2023   and   through   June      30,    2024,    "25%    of   the   taxpayer's
liability for the same calendar month of the preceding year"
shall be determined as if the rate reduction to 1.25% in Public
Act 102-700 on sales tax holiday items had not occurred. If any
such quarter monthly payment is not paid at the time or in the
amount required by this Section, then the taxpayer shall be
liable for penalties and interest on the difference between
the minimum amount due as a payment and the amount of such
quarter    monthly   payment      actually      and   timely    paid,   except
insofar as the taxpayer has previously made payments for that
month to the Department in excess of the minimum payments
previously due as provided in this Section. The Department
shall make reasonable rules and regulations to govern the
quarter monthly payment amount and quarter monthly payment
dates for taxpayers who file on other than a calendar monthly
basis.
    The provisions of this paragraph apply before October 1,
2001. Without regard to whether a taxpayer is required to make
quarter monthly payments as specified above, any taxpayer who
is required by Section 2d of this Act to collect and remit
prepaid taxes and has collected prepaid taxes which average in
excess of $25,000 per month during the preceding 2 complete
calendar quarters, shall file a return with the Department as
required     by   Section   2f    and    shall    make    payments      to   the
Department on or before the 7th, 15th, 22nd and last day of the
month during which such liability is incurred. If the month
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


during which such tax liability is incurred began prior to
September 1, 1985 (the effective date of Public Act 84-221),
each payment shall be in an amount not less than 22.5% of the
taxpayer's actual liability under Section 2d. If the month
during which such tax liability is incurred begins on or after
January 1, 1986, each payment shall be in an amount equal to
22.5% of the taxpayer's actual liability for the month or
27.5% of the taxpayer's liability for the same calendar month
of the preceding calendar year. If the month during which such
tax liability is incurred begins on or after January 1, 1987,
each payment shall be in an amount equal to 22.5% of the
taxpayer's actual liability for the month or 26.25% of the
taxpayer's   liability     for    the   same    calendar   month   of   the
preceding year. The amount of such quarter monthly payments
shall be credited against the final tax liability of the
taxpayer's return for that month filed under this Section or
Section   2f,   as   the   case    may    be.    Once   applicable,     the
requirement of the making of quarter monthly payments to the
Department pursuant to this paragraph shall continue until
such taxpayer's average monthly prepaid tax collections during
the preceding 2 complete calendar quarters is $25,000 or less.
If any such quarter monthly payment is not paid at the time or
in the amount required, the taxpayer shall be liable for
penalties and interest on such difference, except insofar as
the taxpayer has previously made payments for that month in
excess of the minimum payments previously due.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    The   provisions     of    this    paragraph      apply   on   and    after
October 1, 2001. Without regard to whether a taxpayer is
required to make quarter monthly payments as specified above,
any taxpayer who is required by Section 2d of this Act to
collect and remit prepaid taxes and has collected prepaid
taxes that average in excess of $20,000 per month during the
preceding 4 complete calendar quarters shall file a return
with the Department as required by Section 2f and shall make
payments to the Department on or before the 7th, 15th, 22nd,
and last day of the month during which the liability is
incurred. Each payment shall be in an amount equal to 22.5% of
the taxpayer's actual liability for the month or 25% of the
taxpayer's   liability        for    the   same    calendar   month      of   the
preceding year. The amount of the quarter monthly payments
shall be credited against the final tax liability of the
taxpayer's return for that month filed under this Section or
Section   2f,    as    the    case    may    be.    Once   applicable,        the
requirement of the making of quarter monthly payments to the
Department pursuant to this paragraph shall continue until the
taxpayer's average monthly prepaid tax collections during the
preceding 4 complete calendar quarters (excluding the month of
highest liability and the month of lowest liability) is less
than   $19,000    or    until       such    taxpayer's     average    monthly
liability to the Department as computed for each calendar
quarter of the 4 preceding complete calendar quarters is less
than $20,000. If any such quarter monthly payment is not paid
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


at the time or in the amount required, the taxpayer shall be
liable for penalties and interest on such difference, except
insofar as the taxpayer has previously made payments for that
month in excess of the minimum payments previously due.
      If any payment provided for in this Section exceeds the
taxpayer's liabilities under this Act, the Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Service Use Tax Act, as
shown on an original monthly return, the Department shall, if
requested by the taxpayer, issue to the taxpayer a credit
memorandum no later than 30 days after the date of payment. The
credit evidenced by such credit memorandum may be assigned by
the taxpayer to a similar taxpayer under this Act, the Use Tax
Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, or the Service Use Tax
Act, in accordance with reasonable rules and regulations to be
prescribed by the Department. If no such request is made, the
taxpayer may credit such excess payment against tax liability
subsequently to be remitted to the Department under this Act,
the Use Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, or the Service
Use    Tax   Act,   in   accordance   with    reasonable   rules   and
regulations prescribed by the Department. If the Department
subsequently determined that all or any part of the credit
taken was not actually due to the taxpayer, the taxpayer's
vendor's discount shall be reduced, if necessary, to reflect
the difference between the credit taken and that actually due,
and that taxpayer shall be liable for penalties and interest
on such difference.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    If a retailer of motor fuel is entitled to a credit under
Section 2d of this Act which exceeds the taxpayer's liability
to the Department under this Act for the month for which the
taxpayer is filing a return, the Department shall issue the
taxpayer a credit memorandum for the excess.
    The net revenue realized at the 15% rate under either
Section 4 or Section 5 of this Act shall be deposited as
follows: (i) notwithstanding the provisions of this Section to
the contrary, the net revenue realized from the portion of the
rate in excess of 5% shall be deposited into the State and
Local Sales Tax Reform Fund; and (ii) the net revenue realized
from the 5% portion of the rate shall be deposited as provided
in this Section for the 5% portion of the 6.25% general rate
imposed under this Act.
    Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the Local Government Tax Fund, a special fund in the
State   treasury     which    is    hereby   created,   the   net    revenue
realized for the preceding month from the 1% tax imposed under
this Act.
    Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the County and Mass Transit District Fund, a special
fund in the State treasury which is hereby created, 4% of the
net revenue realized for the preceding month from the 6.25%
general    rate    other    than    aviation   fuel    sold   on   or     after
December    1,    2019.    This    exception   for    aviation     fuel    only
applies for so long as the revenue use requirements of 49
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133 are binding on the State.
    Beginning August 1, 2000, each month the Department shall
pay into the County and Mass Transit District Fund 20% of the
net revenue realized for the preceding month from the 1.25%
rate on the selling price of motor fuel and gasohol. If, in any
month, the tax on sales tax holiday items, as defined in
Section    2-8,    is   imposed    at    the    rate    of    1.25%,   then      the
Department shall pay 20% of the net revenue realized for that
month from the 1.25% rate on the selling price of sales tax
holiday items into the County and Mass Transit District Fund.
    Beginning January 1, 1990, each month the Department shall
pay into the Local Government Tax Fund 16% of the net revenue
realized for the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate
on the selling price of tangible personal property other than
aviation    fuel    sold   on     or    after    December      1,   2019.     This
exception for aviation fuel only applies for so long as the
revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C.
47133 are binding on the State.
    For aviation fuel sold on or after December 1, 2019, each
month the Department shall pay into the State Aviation Program
Fund 20% of the net revenue realized for the preceding month
from the 6.25% general rate on the selling price of aviation
fuel,   less   an   amount      estimated       by   the     Department     to    be
required for refunds of the 20% portion of the tax on aviation
fuel under this Act, which amount shall be deposited into the
Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund. The Department shall only
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


pay   moneys   into   the    State    Aviation    Program      Fund    and   the
Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund under this Act for so long
as the revenue use requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49
U.S.C. 47133 are binding on the State.
      Beginning August 1, 2000, each month the Department shall
pay into the Local Government Tax Fund 80% of the net revenue
realized for the preceding month from the 1.25% rate on the
selling price of motor fuel and gasohol. If, in any month, the
tax on sales tax holiday items, as defined in Section 2-8, is
imposed at the rate of 1.25%, then the Department shall pay 80%
of the net revenue realized for that month from the 1.25% rate
on the selling price of sales tax holiday items into the Local
Government Tax Fund.
      Beginning October 1, 2009 and through June 30, 2026, each
month the Department shall pay into the Capital Projects Fund
an    amount   that   is    equal    to   an   amount      estimated   by    the
Department to represent 80% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the sale of candy, grooming and
hygiene products, and soft drinks that had been taxed at a rate
of 1% prior to September 1, 2009, but that are now taxed at
6.25%.
      Beginning July 1, 2011, each month the Department shall
pay into the Clean Air Act Permit Fund 80% of the net revenue
realized for the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate
on the selling price of sorbents used in Illinois in the
process   of   sorbent      injection     as   used   to    comply    with   the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Environmental Protection Act or the federal Clean Air Act, but
the total payment into the Clean Air Act Permit Fund under this
Act and the Use Tax Act shall not exceed $2,000,000 in any
fiscal year.
    Beginning July 1, 2013, each month the Department shall
pay into the Underground Storage Tank Fund from the proceeds
collected under this Act, the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax
Act, and the Service Occupation Tax Act an amount equal to the
average monthly deficit in the Underground Storage Tank Fund
during the prior year, as certified annually by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency, but the total payment into
the Underground Storage Tank Fund under this Act, the Use Tax
Act, the Service Use Tax Act, and the Service Occupation Tax
Act shall not exceed $18,000,000 in any State fiscal year. As
used in this paragraph, the "average monthly deficit" shall be
equal to the difference between the average monthly claims for
payment by the fund and the average monthly revenues deposited
into   the   fund,   excluding   payments   made   pursuant   to   this
paragraph.
    Beginning July 1, 2015, of the remainder of the moneys
received by the Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service
Use Tax Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, and this Act, each
month the Department shall deposit $500,000 into the State
Crime Laboratory Fund.
    Of the remainder of the moneys received by the Department
pursuant to this Act, (a) 1.75% thereof shall be paid into the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Build Illinois Fund and (b) prior to July 1, 1989, 2.2% and on
and after July 1, 1989, 3.8% thereof shall be paid into the
Build Illinois Fund; provided, however, that if in any fiscal
year the sum of (1) the aggregate of 2.2% or 3.8%, as the case
may be, of the moneys received by the Department and required
to be paid into the Build Illinois Fund pursuant to this Act,
Section 9 of the Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax
Act, and Section 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, such Acts
being hereinafter called the "Tax Acts" and such aggregate of
2.2% or 3.8%, as the case may be, of moneys being hereinafter
called the "Tax Act Amount", and (2) the amount transferred to
the Build Illinois Fund from the State and Local Sales Tax
Reform Fund shall be less than the Annual Specified Amount (as
hereinafter defined), an amount equal to the difference shall
be immediately paid into the Build Illinois Fund from other
moneys received by the Department pursuant to the Tax Acts;
the "Annual Specified Amount" means the amounts specified
below for fiscal years 1986 through 1993:
          Fiscal Year              Annual Specified Amount
             1986                           $54,800,000
             1987                           $76,650,000
             1988                           $80,480,000
             1989                           $88,510,000
             1990                        $115,330,000
             1991                        $145,470,000
             1992                        $182,730,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


              1993                         $206,520,000;
and means the Certified Annual Debt Service Requirement (as
defined in Section 13 of the Build Illinois Bond Act) or the
Tax Act Amount, whichever is greater, for fiscal year 1994 and
each fiscal year thereafter; and further provided, that if on
the last business day of any month the sum of (1) the Tax Act
Amount required to be deposited into the Build Illinois Bond
Account in the Build Illinois Fund during such month and (2)
the amount transferred to the Build Illinois Fund from the
State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund shall have been less than
1/12 of the Annual Specified Amount, an amount equal to the
difference shall be immediately paid into the Build Illinois
Fund from other moneys received by the Department pursuant to
the Tax Acts; and, further provided, that in no event shall the
payments   required   under   the   preceding   proviso   result   in
aggregate payments into the Build Illinois Fund pursuant to
this clause (b) for any fiscal year in excess of the greater of
(i) the Tax Act Amount or (ii) the Annual Specified Amount for
such fiscal year. The amounts payable into the Build Illinois
Fund under clause (b) of the first sentence in this paragraph
shall be payable only until such time as the aggregate amount
on deposit under each trust indenture securing Bonds issued
and outstanding pursuant to the Build Illinois Bond Act is
sufficient, taking into account any future investment income,
to fully provide, in accordance with such indenture, for the
defeasance of or the payment of the principal of, premium, if
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


any, and interest on the Bonds secured by such indenture and on
any Bonds expected to be issued thereafter and all fees and
costs payable with respect thereto, all as certified by the
Director of the Bureau of the Budget (now Governor's Office of
Management and Budget). If on the last business day of any
month in which Bonds are outstanding pursuant to the Build
Illinois Bond Act, the aggregate of moneys deposited into the
Build Illinois Bond Account in the Build Illinois Fund in such
month shall be less than the amount required to be transferred
in such month from the Build Illinois Bond Account to the Build
Illinois Bond Retirement and Interest Fund pursuant to Section
13 of the Build Illinois Bond Act, an amount equal to such
deficiency      shall   be   immediately      paid   from   other   moneys
received by the Department pursuant to the Tax Acts to the
Build Illinois Fund; provided, however, that any amounts paid
to the Build Illinois Fund in any fiscal year pursuant to this
sentence shall be deemed to constitute payments pursuant to
clause (b) of the first sentence of this paragraph and shall
reduce the amount otherwise payable for such fiscal year
pursuant   to    that   clause   (b).   The    moneys   received    by   the
Department pursuant to this Act and required to be deposited
into the Build Illinois Fund are subject to the pledge, claim
and charge set forth in Section 12 of the Build Illinois Bond
Act.
    Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois Fund
as provided in the preceding paragraph or in any amendment
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


thereto hereafter enacted, the following specified monthly
installment of the amount requested in the certificate of the
Chairman of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
provided under Section 8.25f of the State Finance Act, but not
in excess of sums designated as "Total Deposit", shall be
deposited in the aggregate from collections under Section 9 of
the Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, Section
9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, and Section 3 of the
Retailers'   Occupation    Tax   Act   into   the   McCormick   Place
Expansion Project Fund in the specified fiscal years.
             Fiscal Year                               Total Deposit
                  1993                                            $0
                  1994                                   53,000,000
                  1995                                   58,000,000
                  1996                                   61,000,000
                  1997                                   64,000,000
                  1998                                   68,000,000
                  1999                                   71,000,000
                  2000                                   75,000,000
                  2001                                   80,000,000
                  2002                                   93,000,000
                  2003                                   99,000,000
                  2004                                  103,000,000
                  2005                                  108,000,000
                  2006                                  113,000,000
                  2007                                  119,000,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


                  2008               126,000,000
                  2009               132,000,000
                  2010               139,000,000
                  2011               146,000,000
                  2012               153,000,000
                  2013               161,000,000
                  2014               170,000,000
                  2015               179,000,000
                  2016               189,000,000
                  2017               199,000,000
                  2018               210,000,000
                  2019               221,000,000
                  2020               233,000,000
                  2021               300,000,000
                  2022               300,000,000
                  2023               300,000,000
                  2024               300,000,000
                  2025               300,000,000
                  2026               300,000,000
                  2027               375,000,000
                  2028               375,000,000
                  2029               375,000,000
                  2030               375,000,000
                  2031               375,000,000
                  2032               375,000,000
                  2033               375,000,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


                     2034                                      375,000,000
                     2035                                      375,000,000
                     2036                                      450,000,000
                     and
             each fiscal year
           thereafter that bonds
           are outstanding under
            Section 13.2 of the
           Metropolitan Pier and
       Exposition Authority Act,
  but not after fiscal year 2060.
      Beginning July 20, 1993 and in each month of each fiscal
year thereafter, one-eighth of the amount requested in the
certificate of the Chairman of the Metropolitan Pier and
Exposition Authority for that fiscal year, less the amount
deposited into the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund by
the State Treasurer in the respective month under subsection
(g) of Section 13 of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition
Authority Act, plus cumulative deficiencies in the deposits
required under this Section for previous months and years,
shall be deposited into the McCormick Place Expansion Project
Fund, until the full amount requested for the fiscal year, but
not   in    excess   of     the   amount   specified   above    as   "Total
Deposit", has been deposited.
      Subject to payment of amounts into the Capital Projects
Fund, the Clean Air Act Permit Fund, the Build Illinois Fund,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


and the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund pursuant to the
preceding paragraphs or in any amendments thereto hereafter
enacted, for aviation fuel sold on or after December 1, 2019,
the Department shall each month deposit into the Aviation Fuel
Sales Tax Refund Fund an amount estimated by the Department to
be required for refunds of the 80% portion of the tax on
aviation   fuel    under     this    Act.    The   Department         shall   only
deposit moneys into the Aviation Fuel Sales Tax Refund Fund
under   this     paragraph     for     so   long    as    the     revenue     use
requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) and 49 U.S.C. 47133 are
binding on the State.
    Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois Fund
and the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund pursuant to the
preceding paragraphs or in any amendments thereto hereafter
enacted, beginning July 1, 1993 and ending on September 30,
2013, the Department shall each month pay into the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund 0.27% of 80% of the net revenue realized for
the preceding month from the 6.25% general rate on the selling
price of tangible personal property.
    Subject to payment of amounts into the Build Illinois
Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, and the
Illinois   Tax     Increment        Fund    pursuant     to     the    preceding
paragraphs or in any amendments to this Section hereafter
enacted, beginning on the first day of the first calendar
month to occur on or after August 26, 2014 (the effective date
of Public Act 98-1098), each month, from the collections made
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


under Section 9 of the Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service
Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, and
Section 3 of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, the Department
shall pay into the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund, to
be used, subject to appropriation, to fund additional auditors
and compliance personnel at the Department of Revenue, an
amount equal to 1/12 of 5% of 80% of the cash receipts
collected during the preceding fiscal year by the Audit Bureau
of the Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax
Act, the Service Occupation Tax Act, the Retailers' Occupation
Tax   Act,    and      associated      local       occupation      and    use       taxes
administered by the Department.
      Subject to payments of amounts into the Build Illinois
Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois
Tax Increment Fund, the Energy Infrastructure Fund, and the
Tax Compliance and Administration Fund as provided in this
Section, beginning on July 1, 2018 the Department shall pay
each month into the Downstate Public Transportation Fund the
moneys   required       to   be   so    paid       under   Section       2-3    of    the
Downstate Public Transportation Act.
      Subject     to    successful          execution      and    delivery       of    a
public-private agreement between the public agency and private
entity and completion of the civic build, beginning on July 1,
2023,    of     the    remainder       of    the    moneys       received      by     the
Department under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and this Act, the Department shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


deposit the following specified deposits in the aggregate from
collections under the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act, as required under Section 8.25g of the State Finance Act
for      distribution        consistent          with        the     Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
The moneys received by the Department pursuant to this Act and
required     to     be    deposited       into     the       Civic    and    Transit
Infrastructure Fund are subject to the pledge, claim and
charge    set     forth    in   Section    25-55        of    the    Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
As used in this paragraph, "civic build", "private entity",
"public-private          agreement",   and       "public       agency"      have   the
meanings    provided       in   Section    25-10        of    the    Public-Private
Partnership for Civic and Transit Infrastructure Project Act.
          Fiscal Year ............................                    Total Deposit
          2024 .................................... $200,000,000
          2025 .................................... $206,000,000
          2026 .................................... $212,200,000
          2027 .................................... $218,500,000
          2028 .................................... $225,100,000
          2029 .................................... $288,700,000
          2030 .................................... $298,900,000
          2031 .................................... $309,300,000
          2032 .................................... $320,100,000
          2033 .................................... $331,200,000
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


         2034 .................................... $341,200,000
         2035 .................................... $351,400,000
         2036 .................................... $361,900,000
         2037 .................................... $372,800,000
         2038 .................................... $384,000,000
         2039 .................................... $395,500,000
         2040 .................................... $407,400,000
         2041 .................................... $419,600,000
         2042 .................................... $432,200,000
         2043 .................................... $445,100,000
      Beginning July 1, 2021 and until July 1, 2022, subject to
the   payment    of   amounts      into    the   County      and   Mass   Transit
District   Fund,      the    Local    Government       Tax   Fund,    the     Build
Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project Fund, the
Illinois   Tax    Increment        Fund,   and   the    Tax    Compliance      and
Administration        Fund    as     provided     in    this       Section,    the
Department shall pay each month into the Road Fund the amount
estimated to represent 16% of the net revenue realized from
the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol. Beginning July 1,
2022 and until July 1, 2023, subject to the payment of amounts
into the County and Mass Transit District Fund, the Local
Government Tax Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick
Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund,
and the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund as provided in
this Section, the Department shall pay each month into the
Road Fund the amount estimated to represent 32% of the net
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


revenue realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and
gasohol.    Beginning   July   1,    2023     and   until    July    1,   2024,
subject to the payment of amounts into the County and Mass
Transit District Fund, the Local Government Tax Fund, the
Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick Place Expansion Project
Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund, and the Tax Compliance
and Administration Fund as provided in this Section, the
Department shall pay each month into the Road Fund the amount
estimated to represent 48% of the net revenue realized from
the taxes imposed on motor fuel and gasohol. Beginning July 1,
2024 and until July 1, 2026, subject to the payment of amounts
into the County and Mass Transit District Fund, the Local
Government Tax Fund, the Build Illinois Fund, the McCormick
Place Expansion Project Fund, the Illinois Tax Increment Fund,
and the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund as provided in
this Section, the Department shall pay each month into the
Road Fund the amount estimated to represent 64% of the net
revenue realized from the taxes imposed on motor fuel and
gasohol. Beginning on July 1, 2026, subject to the payment of
amounts into the County and Mass Transit District Fund, the
Local   Government    Tax   Fund,    the    Build    Illinois       Fund,   the
McCormick    Place   Expansion      Project    Fund,   the    Illinois      Tax
Increment Fund, and the Tax Compliance and Administration Fund
as provided in this Section, the Department shall pay each
month into the Public Transportation Fund and the Downstate
Public Transportation Fund the amount estimated to represent
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


80% of the net revenue realized from the taxes imposed on motor
fuel and gasohol. Moneys shall be apportioned as follows: 85%
into the Public Transportation Fund and 15% into the Downstate
Public Transportation Fund. As used in this paragraph "motor
fuel" has the meaning given to that term in Section 1.1 of the
Motor Fuel Tax Law, and "gasohol" has the meaning given to that
term in Section 3-40 of the Use Tax Act.
    Until   July   1,   2025,   of   the   remainder   of   the   moneys
received by the Department pursuant to this Act, 75% thereof
shall be paid into the State treasury and 25% shall be reserved
in a special account and used only for the transfer to the
Common School Fund as part of the monthly transfer from the
General Revenue Fund in accordance with Section 8a of the
State Finance Act. Beginning July 1, 2025, of the remainder of
the moneys received by the Department pursuant to this Act,
75% shall be deposited into the General Revenue Fund and 25%
shall be deposited into the Common School Fund.
    The Department may, upon separate written notice to a
taxpayer, require the taxpayer to prepare and file with the
Department on a form prescribed by the Department within not
less than 60 days after receipt of the notice an annual
information return for the tax year specified in the notice.
Such annual return to the Department shall include a statement
of gross receipts as shown by the retailer's last federal
income tax return. If the total receipts of the business as
reported in the federal income tax return do not agree with the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


gross receipts reported to the Department of Revenue for the
same period, the retailer shall attach to his annual return a
schedule showing a reconciliation of the 2 amounts and the
reasons for the difference. The retailer's annual return to
the Department shall also disclose the cost of goods sold by
the retailer during the year covered by such return, opening
and closing inventories of such goods for such year, costs of
goods used from stock or taken from stock and given away by the
retailer     during      such     year,     payroll      information    of   the
retailer's      business    during        such    year   and    any   additional
reasonable information which the Department deems would be
helpful in determining the accuracy of the monthly, quarterly,
or annual returns filed by such retailer as provided for in
this Section.
    If the annual information return required by this Section
is not filed when and as required, the taxpayer shall be liable
as follows:
         (i) Until       January 1,        1994,    the taxpayer shall        be
    liable for a penalty equal to 1/6 of 1% of the tax due from
    such taxpayer under this Act during the period to be
    covered by the annual return for each month or fraction of
    a   month    until     such    return    is    filed   as    required,   the
    penalty to be assessed and collected in the same manner as
    any other penalty provided for in this Act.
         (ii) On and after January 1, 1994, the taxpayer shall
    be liable for a penalty as described in Section 3-4 of the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Uniform Penalty and Interest Act.
    The chief executive officer, proprietor, owner, or highest
ranking manager shall sign the annual return to certify the
accuracy of the information contained therein. Any person who
willfully     signs    the    annual   return      containing      false    or
inaccurate information shall be guilty of perjury and punished
accordingly.     The   annual    return     form      prescribed    by     the
Department shall include a warning that the person signing the
return may be liable for perjury.
    The provisions of this Section concerning the filing of an
annual information return do not apply to a retailer who is not
required to file an income tax return with the United States
Government.
    As soon as possible after the first day of each month, upon
certification of the Department of Revenue, the Comptroller
shall order transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer from
the General Revenue Fund to the Motor Fuel Tax Fund an amount
equal to 1.7% of 80% of the net revenue realized under this Act
for the second preceding month. Beginning April 1, 2000, this
transfer is no longer required and shall not be made.
    Net revenue realized for a month shall be the revenue
collected by the State pursuant to this Act, less the amount
paid   out   during    that   month    as   refunds    to   taxpayers      for
overpayment of liability.
    For greater simplicity of administration, manufacturers,
importers and wholesalers whose products are sold at retail in
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Illinois by numerous retailers, and who wish to do so, may
assume the responsibility for accounting and paying to the
Department all tax accruing under this Act with respect to
such sales, if the retailers who are affected do not make
written objection to the Department to this arrangement.
    Any person who promotes, organizes, or provides retail
selling space for concessionaires or other types of sellers at
the Illinois State Fair, DuQuoin State Fair, county fairs,
local fairs, art shows, flea markets, and similar exhibitions
or events, including any transient merchant as defined by
Section 2 of the Transient Merchant Act of 1987, is required to
file a report with the Department providing the name of the
merchant's business, the name of the person or persons engaged
in merchant's business, the permanent address and Illinois
Retailers Occupation Tax Registration Number of the merchant,
the dates and location of the event, and other reasonable
information that the Department may require. The report must
be filed not later than the 20th day of the month next
following the month during which the event with retail sales
was held. Any person who fails to file a report required by
this Section commits a business offense and is subject to a
fine not to exceed $250.
    Any person engaged in the business of selling tangible
personal property at retail as a concessionaire or other type
of seller at the Illinois State Fair, county fairs, art shows,
flea   markets,   and   similar   exhibitions   or   events,   or   any
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


transient merchants, as defined by Section 2 of the Transient
Merchant Act of 1987, may be required to make a daily report of
the amount of such sales to the Department and to make a daily
payment of the full amount of tax due. The Department shall
impose   this     requirement   when    it    finds     that    there    is    a
significant risk of loss of revenue to the State at such an
exhibition or event. Such a finding shall be based on evidence
that a substantial number of concessionaires or other sellers
who are not residents of Illinois will be engaging in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail at
the exhibition or event, or other evidence of a significant
risk of loss of revenue to the State. The Department shall
notify   concessionaires      and   other     sellers    affected       by   the
imposition of this requirement. In the absence of notification
by the Department, the concessionaires and other sellers shall
file their returns as otherwise required in this Section.
(Source:   P.A.    103-9,    eff.   6-7-23;    103-154,    eff.     6-30-23;
103-363, eff. 7-28-23; 103-592, Article 75, Section 75-20,
eff.   1-1-25;    103-592,    Article   110,     Section       110-20,       eff.
6-7-24; 103-605, eff. 7-1-24; 103-1055, eff. 12-20-24; 104-6,
Article 5, Section 5-25, eff. 6-16-25; 104-6, Article 25,
Section 25-20, eff. 6-16-25; 104-6, Article 35, Section 35-35,
eff. 6-16-25; 104-457, eff. 6-1-26.)


    Section 5-75. The Regional Transportation Authority Act is
amended by changing Section 4.09 as follows:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b



      (70 ILCS 3615/4.09)
      (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-457)
      Sec. 4.09. Public Transportation Fund and the Regional
Transportation Authority Occupation and Use Tax Replacement
Fund.
      (a)(1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (4), as
soon as possible after the first day of each month, beginning
July 1, 1984, upon certification of the Department of Revenue,
the Comptroller shall order transferred and the Treasurer
shall transfer from the General Revenue Fund to a special fund
in the State treasury Treasury to be known as the Public
Transportation Fund an amount equal to 25% of the net revenue,
before the deduction of the serviceman and retailer discounts
pursuant to Section 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act and
Section 3 of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, realized from
any tax imposed by the Authority pursuant to Sections 4.03 and
4.03.1 and 25% of the amounts deposited into the Regional
Transportation Authority tax fund created by Section 4.03 of
this Act, from the County and Mass Transit District Fund as
provided in Section 6z-20 of the State Finance Act and 25% of
the     amounts   deposited   into   the   Regional   Transportation
Authority Occupation and Use Tax Replacement Fund from the
State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund as provided in Section
6z-17 of the State Finance Act. On the first day of the month
following the date that the Department receives revenues from
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


increased taxes under Section 4.03(m) as authorized by Public
Act   95-708,       in   lieu     of   the    transfers     authorized       in   the
preceding sentence, upon certification of the Department of
Revenue,     the    Comptroller        shall      order   transferred       and   the
Treasurer shall transfer from the General Revenue Fund to the
Public Transportation Fund an amount equal to 25% of the net
revenue, before the deduction of the serviceman and retailer
discounts pursuant to Section 9 of the Service Occupation Tax
Act   and    Section     3   of    the    Retailers'       Occupation       Tax   Act,
realized from (i) 80% of the proceeds of any tax imposed by the
Authority at a rate of 1.25% in Cook County, (ii) 75% of the
proceeds of any tax imposed by the Authority at the rate of 1%
in Cook County, and (iii) one-third of the proceeds of any tax
imposed by the Authority at the rate of 0.75% in the Counties
of DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, and Will, all pursuant to
Section 4.03, and 25% of the net revenue realized from any tax
imposed by the Authority pursuant to Section 4.03.1, and 25%
of the amounts deposited into the Regional Transportation
Authority tax fund created by Section 4.03 of this Act from the
County and Mass Transit District Fund as provided in Section
6z-20   of    the    State      Finance      Act,   and    25%   of   the    amounts
deposited       into      the      Regional         Transportation      Authority
Occupation and Use Tax Replacement Fund from the State and
Local Sales Tax Reform Fund as provided in Section 6z-17 of the
State   Finance      Act.    As    used      in   this    Section,    net    revenue
realized for a month shall be the revenue collected by the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


State pursuant to Sections 4.03 and 4.03.1 during the previous
month from within the metropolitan region, less the amount
paid out during that same month as refunds to taxpayers for
overpayment of liability in the metropolitan region under
Sections 4.03 and 4.03.1.
    Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
beginning on July 6, 2017 (the effective date of Public Act
100-23), those amounts required under this paragraph (1) of
subsection (a) to be transferred by the Treasurer into the
Public Transportation Fund from the General Revenue Fund shall
be directly deposited into the Public Transportation Fund as
the revenues are realized from the taxes indicated.
    (2) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (4), on
February 1, 2009 (the first day of the month following the
effective      date   of    Public      Act   95-708)   and    each    month
thereafter, upon certification by the Department of Revenue,
the Comptroller shall order transferred and the Treasurer
shall transfer from the General Revenue Fund to the Public
Transportation Fund an amount equal to 5% of the net revenue,
before the deduction of the serviceman and retailer discounts
pursuant to Section 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act and
Section 3 of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, realized from
any tax imposed by the Authority pursuant to Sections 4.03 and
4.03.1   and    certified    by   the    Department     of   Revenue   under
Section 4.03(n) of this Act to be paid to the Authority and 5%
of the amounts deposited into the Regional Transportation
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Authority tax fund created by Section 4.03 of this Act from the
County and Mass Transit District Fund as provided in Section
6z-20 of the State Finance Act, and 5% of the amounts deposited
into the Regional Transportation Authority Occupation and Use
Tax Replacement Fund from the State and Local Sales Tax Reform
Fund as provided in Section 6z-17 of the State Finance Act, and
5% of the revenue realized by the Chicago Transit Authority as
financial   assistance    from     the   City    of   Chicago   from   the
proceeds of any tax imposed by the City of Chicago under
Section 8-3-19 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
    Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
beginning on July 6, 2017 (the effective date of Public Act
100-23), those amounts required under this paragraph (2) of
subsection (a) to be transferred by the Treasurer into the
Public Transportation Fund from the General Revenue Fund shall
be directly deposited into the Public Transportation Fund as
the revenues are realized from the taxes indicated.
    (3) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (4), as soon
as possible after the first day of January, 2009 and each month
thereafter, upon certification of the Department of Revenue
with respect to the taxes collected under Section 4.03, the
Comptroller shall order transferred and the Treasurer shall
transfer    from   the   General    Revenue      Fund   to   the   Public
Transportation Fund an amount equal to 25% of the net revenue,
before the deduction of the serviceman and retailer discounts
pursuant to Section 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Section 3 of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, realized from
(i) 20% of the proceeds of any tax imposed by the Authority at
a rate of 1.25% in Cook County, (ii) 25% of the proceeds of any
tax imposed by the Authority at the rate of 1% in Cook County,
and (iii) one-third of the proceeds of any tax imposed by the
Authority at the rate of 0.75% in the Counties of DuPage, Kane,
Lake, McHenry, and Will, all pursuant to Section 4.03, and the
Comptroller shall order transferred and the Treasurer shall
transfer   from   the   General   Revenue    Fund   to    the    Public
Transportation Fund (iv) an amount equal to 25% of the revenue
realized   by   the   Chicago   Transit   Authority      as   financial
assistance from the City of Chicago from the proceeds of any
tax imposed by the City of Chicago under Section 8-3-19 of the
Illinois Municipal Code.
    Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
beginning on July 6, 2017 (the effective date of Public Act
100-23), those amounts required under this paragraph (3) of
subsection (a) to be transferred by the Treasurer into the
Public Transportation Fund from the General Revenue Fund shall
be directly deposited into the Public Transportation Fund as
the revenues are realized from the taxes indicated.
    (4) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
for the State fiscal year beginning July 1, 2024 and each State
fiscal year thereafter, the first $150,000,000 that would have
otherwise been transferred from the General Revenue Fund and
deposited into the Public Transportation Fund as provided in
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this subsection (a) shall
instead be transferred from the Road Fund by the Treasurer
upon certification by the Department of Revenue and order of
the Comptroller. For the State fiscal year beginning July 1,
2024, only, the next $75,000,000 that would have otherwise
been transferred from the General Revenue Fund and deposited
into the Public Transportation Fund as provided in paragraphs
(1), (2), and (3) of this subsection (a) shall instead be
transferred from the Road Fund and deposited into the Public
Transportation Fund by the Treasurer upon certification by the
Department of Revenue and order of the Comptroller. The funds
authorized and transferred pursuant to this amendatory Act of
the 103rd General Assembly are not intended or planned for
road   construction   projects.   For   the   State   fiscal   year
beginning July 1, 2024, only, the next $50,000,000 that would
have otherwise been transferred from the General Revenue Fund
and deposited into the Public Transportation Fund as provided
in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this subsection (a) shall
instead be transferred from the Underground Storage Tank Fund
and deposited into the Public Transportation Fund by the
Treasurer upon certification by the Department of Revenue and
order of the Comptroller. The remaining balance shall be
deposited each State fiscal year as otherwise provided in
paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this subsection (a).
    (5) (Blank).
    (6) (Blank).
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      (7) For State fiscal year 2020 only, notwithstanding any
provision of law to the contrary, the total amount of revenue
and   deposits      under    this    Section          attributable     to    revenues
realized during State fiscal year 2020 shall be reduced by 5%.
      (8) For State fiscal year 2021 only, notwithstanding any
provision of law to the contrary, the total amount of revenue
and   deposits      under    this    Section          attributable     to    revenues
realized during State fiscal year 2021 shall be reduced by 5%.
      (b)(1) All moneys deposited in the Public Transportation
Fund and the Regional Transportation Authority Occupation and
Use Tax Replacement Fund, whether deposited pursuant to this
Section or otherwise, are allocated to the Authority, except
for   amounts    appropriated         to    the       Office    of   the    Executive
Inspector General as authorized by subsection (h) of Section
4.03.3 and amounts transferred to the Audit Expense Fund
pursuant    to   Section      6z-27    of       the    State    Finance     Act.   The
Comptroller, as soon as possible after each monthly transfer
provided in this Section and after each deposit into the
Public Transportation Fund, shall order the Treasurer to pay
to the Authority out of the Public Transportation Fund the
amount   so   transferred       or    deposited.          Any    Additional       State
Assistance and Additional Financial Assistance paid to the
Authority     under    this     Section         shall     be     expended    by    the
Authority     for   its     purposes       as   provided        in   this   Act.   The
balance of the amounts paid to the Authority from the Public
Transportation Fund shall be expended by the Authority as
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


provided       in   Section    4.03.3.   The   Comptroller,     as    soon    as
possible after each deposit into the Regional Transportation
Authority Occupation and Use Tax Replacement Fund provided in
this Section and Section 6z-17 of the State Finance Act, shall
order the Treasurer to pay to the Authority out of the Regional
Transportation Authority Occupation and Use Tax Replacement
Fund    the    amount   so     deposited.     Such   amounts   paid   to     the
Authority may be expended by it for its purposes as provided in
this Act. The provisions directing the distributions from the
Public Transportation Fund and the Regional Transportation
Authority Occupation and Use Tax Replacement Fund provided for
in this Section shall constitute an irrevocable and continuing
appropriation of all amounts as provided herein. The State
Treasurer and State Comptroller are hereby authorized and
directed to make distributions as provided in this Section.
      (2)     Provided,       however,   no     moneys   deposited      under
subsection (a) of this Section shall be paid from the Public
Transportation Fund to the Authority or its assignee for any
fiscal year until the Authority has certified to the Governor,
the Comptroller, and the Mayor of the City of Chicago that it
has adopted for that fiscal year an Annual Budget and Two-Year
Financial Plan meeting the requirements in Section 4.01(b).
      (c) In recognition of the efforts of the Authority to
enhance the mass transportation facilities under its control,
the    State    shall   provide    financial     assistance    ("Additional
State Assistance") in excess of the amounts transferred to the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Authority from the General Revenue Fund under subsection (a)
of     this   Section.    Additional      State      Assistance      shall    be
calculated as provided in subsection (d), but shall in no
event exceed the following specified amounts with respect to
the following State fiscal years:
          1990                          $5,000,000;
          1991                          $5,000,000;
          1992                          $10,000,000;
          1993                          $10,000,000;
          1994                          $20,000,000;
          1995                          $30,000,000;
          1996                          $40,000,000;
          1997                          $50,000,000;
          1998                          $55,000,000; and
          each year thereafter          $55,000,000.
     (c-5)    The     State     shall   provide      financial    assistance
("Additional        Financial    Assistance")        in   addition    to     the
Additional State Assistance provided by subsection (c) and the
amounts transferred to the Authority from the General Revenue
Fund    under    subsection      (a)    of    this    Section.    Additional
Financial Assistance provided by this subsection shall be
calculated as provided in subsection (d), but shall in no
event exceed the following specified amounts with respect to
the following State fiscal years:
          2000                          $0;
          2001                          $16,000,000;
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        2002                   $35,000,000;
        2003                   $54,000,000;
        2004                   $73,000,000;
        2005                   $93,000,000; and
        each year thereafter   $100,000,000.
    (d) Beginning with State fiscal year 1990 and continuing
for each State fiscal year thereafter, the Authority shall
annually certify to the State Comptroller and State Treasurer,
separately with respect to each of subdivisions (g)(2) and
(g)(3) of Section 4.04 of this Act, the following amounts:
        (1) The amount necessary and required, during the
    State fiscal year with respect to which the certification
    is made, to pay its obligations for debt service on all
    outstanding bonds or notes issued by the Authority under
    subdivisions (g)(2) and (g)(3) of Section 4.04 of this
    Act.
        (2) An estimate of the amount necessary and required
    to pay its obligations for debt service for any bonds or
    notes which the Authority anticipates it will issue under
    subdivisions (g)(2) and (g)(3) of Section 4.04 during that
    State fiscal year.
        (3) Its debt service savings during the preceding
    State fiscal year from refunding or advance refunding of
    bonds or notes issued under subdivisions (g)(2) and (g)(3)
    of Section 4.04.
        (4) The amount of interest, if any, earned by the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Authority during the previous State fiscal year on the
    proceeds of bonds or notes issued pursuant to subdivisions
    (g)(2) and (g)(3) of Section 4.04, other than refunding or
    advance refunding bonds or notes.
    The certification shall include a specific schedule of
debt service payments, including the date and amount of each
payment for all outstanding bonds or notes and an estimated
schedule of anticipated debt service for all bonds and notes
it intends to issue, if any, during that State fiscal year,
including the estimated date and estimated amount of each
payment.
    Immediately   upon   the   issuance    of   bonds   for   which   an
estimated schedule of debt service payments was prepared, the
Authority shall file an amended certification with respect to
item (2) above, to specify the actual schedule of debt service
payments, including the date and amount of each payment, for
the remainder of the State fiscal year.
    On the first day of each month of the State fiscal year in
which there are bonds outstanding with respect to which the
certification   is   made,   the   State   Comptroller   shall   order
transferred and the State Treasurer shall transfer from the
Road Fund to the Public Transportation Fund the Additional
State Assistance and Additional Financial Assistance in an
amount equal to the aggregate of (i) one-twelfth of the sum of
the amounts certified under items (1) and (3) above less the
amount certified under item (4) above, plus (ii) the amount
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


required to pay debt service on bonds and notes issued during
the fiscal year, if any, divided by the number of months
remaining in the fiscal year after the date of issuance, or
some smaller portion as may be necessary under subsection (c)
or (c-5) of this Section for the relevant State fiscal year,
plus (iii) any cumulative deficiencies in transfers for prior
months, until an amount equal to the sum of the amounts
certified under items (1) and (3) above, plus the actual debt
service   certified   under     item   (2)   above,     less   the   amount
certified under item (4) above, has been transferred; except
that these transfers are subject to the following limits:
          (A) In no event shall the total transfers in any State
    fiscal year relating to outstanding bonds and notes issued
    by the Authority under subdivision (g)(2) of Section 4.04
    exceed the lesser of the annual maximum amount specified
    in subsection (c) or the sum of the amounts certified
    under   items   (1)   and   (3)    above,    plus   the    actual   debt
    service certified under item (2) above, less the amount
    certified under item (4) above, with respect to those
    bonds and notes.
          (B) In no event shall the total transfers in any State
    fiscal year relating to outstanding bonds and notes issued
    by the Authority under subdivision (g)(3) of Section 4.04
    exceed the lesser of the annual maximum amount specified
    in subsection (c-5) or the sum of the amounts certified
    under   items   (1)   and   (3)    above,    plus   the    actual   debt
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    service certified under item (2) above, less the amount
    certified under item (4) above, with respect to those
    bonds and notes.
    The term "outstanding" does not include bonds or notes for
which refunding or advance refunding bonds or notes have been
issued.
    (e) Neither Additional State Assistance nor Additional
Financial    Assistance    may   be    pledged,      either     directly   or
indirectly as general revenues of the Authority, as security
for any bonds issued by the Authority. The Authority may not
assign its right to receive Additional State Assistance or
Additional    Financial     Assistance,       or     direct     payment    of
Additional     State      Assistance     or        Additional     Financial
Assistance, to a trustee or any other entity for the payment of
debt service on its bonds.
    (f) The certification required under subsection (d) with
respect to outstanding bonds and notes of the Authority shall
be filed as early as practicable before the beginning of the
State fiscal year to which it relates. The certification shall
be revised as may be necessary to accurately state the debt
service requirements of the Authority.
    (g) Within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year, the
Authority shall determine:
          (i) whether the aggregate of all system generated
    revenues for public transportation in the metropolitan
    region which is provided by, or under grant or purchase of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    service contracts with, the Service Boards equals 50% of
    the    aggregate   of    all   costs   of   providing      such    public
    transportation. "System generated revenues" include all
    the proceeds of fares and charges for services provided,
    contributions      received      in    connection       with       public
    transportation from units of local government other than
    the Authority, except for contributions received by the
    Chicago Transit Authority from a real estate transfer tax
    imposed under subsection (i) of Section 8-3-19 of the
    Illinois Municipal Code, and from the State pursuant to
    subsection (i) of Section 2705-305 of the Department of
    Transportation     Law,    and   all     other     revenues      properly
    included consistent with generally accepted accounting
    principles but may not include: the proceeds from any
    borrowing, and, beginning with the 2007 fiscal year, all
    revenues and receipts, including, but not limited to,
    fares and grants received from the federal, State or any
    unit of local government or other entity, derived from
    providing ADA paratransit service pursuant to Section 2.30
    of    the   Regional    Transportation      Authority   Act.      "Costs"
    include all items properly included as operating costs
    consistent with generally accepted accounting principles,
    including     administrative     costs,      but   do   not      include:
    depreciation; payment of principal and interest on bonds,
    notes or other evidences of obligations for borrowed money
    of    the   Authority;     payments    with      respect    to     public
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    transportation facilities made pursuant to subsection (b)
    of   Section     2.20;    any    payments        with     respect     to    rate
    protection contracts, credit enhancements or liquidity
    agreements made under Section 4.14; any other cost as to
    which it is reasonably expected that a cash expenditure
    will not be made; costs for passenger security including
    grants, contracts, personnel, equipment and administrative
    expenses,   except       in   the     case   of    the     Chicago    Transit
    Authority, in which case the term does not include costs
    spent annually by that entity for protection against crime
    as required by Section 27a of the Metropolitan Transit
    Authority Act; the costs of Debt Service paid by the
    Chicago Transit Authority, as defined in Section 12c of
    the Metropolitan Transit Authority Act, or bonds or notes
    issued   pursuant    to       that    Section;      the    payment     by   the
    Commuter Rail Division of debt service on bonds issued
    pursuant    to    Section      3B.09;      expenses       incurred     by   the
    Suburban    Bus    Division          for   the    cost     of   new    public
    transportation services funded from grants pursuant to
    Section 2.01e of this Act for a period of 2 years from the
    date of initiation of each such service; costs as exempted
    by the Board for projects pursuant to Section 2.09 of this
    Act; or, beginning with the 2007 fiscal year, expenses
    related to providing ADA paratransit service pursuant to
    Section 2.30 of the Regional Transportation Authority Act;
    or in fiscal years 2008 through 2012 inclusive, costs in
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    the amount of $200,000,000 in fiscal year 2008, reducing
    by $40,000,000 in each fiscal year thereafter until this
    exemption is eliminated. If said system generated revenues
    are less than 50% of said costs, the Board shall remit an
    amount equal to the amount of the deficit to the State;
    however, due to          the fiscal impacts from           the COVID-19
    pandemic, for fiscal years 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025,
    and 2026, no such payment shall be required. The Treasurer
    shall deposit any such payment in the Road Fund; and
          (ii) whether, beginning with the 2007 fiscal year, the
    aggregate   of     all    fares   charged        and   received    for   ADA
    paratransit      services    equals       the    system   generated      ADA
    paratransit services revenue recovery ratio percentage of
    the    aggregate    of     all    costs     of     providing      such   ADA
    paratransit services.
    (h) If the Authority makes any payment to the State under
paragraph (g), the Authority shall reduce the amount provided
to a Service Board from funds transferred under paragraph (a)
in proportion to the amount by which that Service Board failed
to meet its required system generated revenues recovery ratio.
A Service Board which is affected by a reduction in funds under
this paragraph shall submit to the Authority concurrently with
its next due quarterly report a revised budget incorporating
the reduction in funds. The revised budget must meet the
criteria specified in clauses (i) through (vi) of Section
4.11(b)(2). The Board shall review and act on the revised
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


budget as provided in Section 4.11(b)(3).
(Source: P.A. 103-281, eff. 1-1-24; 103-588, eff. 6-5-24;
104-434, eff. 11-21-25.)


      (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-457)
      Sec. 4.09. Public Transportation Fund and the Northern
Illinois Transit Authority Occupation and Use Tax Replacement
Fund.
      (a)(1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (4), as
soon as possible after the first day of each month, beginning
July 1, 1984, upon certification of the Department of Revenue,
the Comptroller shall order transferred and the Treasurer
shall transfer from the General Revenue Fund to a special fund
in the State treasury to be known as the Public Transportation
Fund an amount equal to 25% of the net revenue, before the
deduction of the serviceman and retailer discounts pursuant to
Section 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act and Section 3 of
the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, realized from any tax
imposed by the Authority pursuant to Sections 4.03 and 4.03.1
and 25% of the amounts deposited into the Northern Illinois
Transit Authority tax fund created by Section 4.03 of this
Act,    from   the   County   and    Mass   Transit    District   Fund   as
provided in Section 6z-20 of the State Finance Act and 25% of
the    amounts   deposited    into   the    Northern   Illinois   Transit
Authority Occupation and Use Tax Replacement Fund from the
State and Local Sales Tax Reform Fund as provided in Section
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


6z-17 of the State Finance Act.
    On the first day of the month following the date that the
Department of Revenue receives revenues from increased taxes
under Section 4.03(m) as authorized by Public Act 95-708 and
until the first day of the month following the date that the
Department   receives     revenues    from   increased   taxes   under
Section 4.03(m) as authorized by Public Act 104-457 this
amendatory Act of the 104th General Assembly, in lieu of the
transfers    authorized    in   the     preceding    sentence,    upon
certification of the Department of Revenue, the Comptroller
shall order transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer from
the General Revenue Fund to the Public Transportation Fund an
amount equal to 25% of the net revenue, before the deduction of
the serviceman and retailer discounts pursuant to Section 9 of
the Service Occupation Tax Act and Section 3 of the Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act, realized from (i) 80% of the proceeds of
any tax imposed by the Authority at a rate of 1.25% in Cook
County, (ii) 75% of the proceeds of any tax imposed by the
Authority at the rate of 1% in Cook County, and (iii) one-third
of the proceeds of any tax imposed by the Authority at the rate
of 0.75% in the Counties of DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, and
Will, all pursuant to Section 4.03, and 25% of the net revenue
realized from any tax imposed by the Authority pursuant to
Section 4.03.1, and 25% of the amounts deposited into the
Regional Transportation Authority tax fund created by Section
4.03 of this Act from the County and Mass Transit District Fund
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


as provided in Section 6z-20 of the State Finance Act, and 25%
of the amounts deposited into the Northern Illinois Transit
Regional    Transportation   Authority        Occupation      and   Use   Tax
Replacement Fund from the State and Local Sales Tax Reform
Fund as provided in Section 6z-17 of the State Finance Act.
    On the first day of the month following the date that the
Department of Revenue receives revenues from increased taxes
under Section 4.03(m) as authorized by Public Act 104-457 this
amendatory Act of the 104th General Assembly, in lieu of the
transfers    authorized    in    the    preceding       sentences,        upon
certification of the Department of Revenue, the Comptroller
shall order transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer from
the General Revenue Fund to the Public Transportation Fund an
amount equal to 25% of the net revenue, before the deduction of
the serviceman and retailer discounts pursuant to Section 9 of
the Service Occupation Tax Act and Section 3 of the Retailers'
Occupation   Tax   Act,   realized     from    (i)    two-thirds     of   the
proceeds of any tax imposed by the Authority at a rate of 1.5%
in Cook County, (ii) 60% of the proceeds of any tax imposed by
the Authority at the rate of 1.25% in Cook County, and (iii)
25% of the proceeds of any tax imposed by the Authority at the
rate of 1% in the Counties of DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, and
Will, all pursuant to Section 4.03, and 25% of the net revenue
realized from any tax imposed by the Authority pursuant to
Section 4.03.1, and 25% of the amounts deposited into the
Northern    Illinois   Transit   Authority      tax    fund    created     by
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Section 4.03 of this Act from the County and Mass Transit
District     Fund        as    provided     in    Section      6z-20       of    the   State
Finance      Act,    and       25%   of     the   amounts      deposited          into   the
Northern Illinois Transit Authority Occupation and Use Tax
Replacement Fund from the State and Local Sales Tax Reform
Fund as provided in Section 6z-17 of the State Finance Act.
    As used in this Section, net revenue realized for a month
shall   be    the        revenue     collected      by   the    State       pursuant      to
Sections 4.03 and 4.03.1 during the previous month from within
the metropolitan region, less the amount paid out during that
same    month       as     refunds     to     taxpayers        for     overpayment        of
liability in the metropolitan region under Sections 4.03 and
4.03.1.
    Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
beginning on July 6, 2017 (the effective date of Public Act
100-23), those amounts required under this paragraph (1) of
subsection (a) to be transferred by the Treasurer into the
Public Transportation Fund from the General Revenue Fund shall
be directly deposited into the Public Transportation Fund as
the revenues are realized from the taxes indicated.
    (2) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (4), on
February 1, 2008 2009 (the first day of the month following the
effective       date          of   Public     Act   95-708)          and        each   month
thereafter, upon certification by the Department of Revenue,
the Comptroller shall order transferred and the Treasurer
shall transfer from the General Revenue Fund to the Public
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Transportation Fund an amount equal to 5% of the net revenue,
before the deduction of the serviceman and retailer discounts
pursuant to Section 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act and
Section 3 of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, realized from
any tax imposed by the Authority pursuant to Sections 4.03 and
4.03.1   and   certified   by   the   Department   of   Revenue   under
Section 4.03(n) of this Act to be paid to the Authority and 5%
of the amounts deposited into the Northern Illinois Transit
Authority tax fund created by Section 4.03 of this Act from the
County and Mass Transit District Fund as provided in Section
6z-20 of the State Finance Act, and 5% of the amounts deposited
into the Northern Illinois Transit Authority Occupation and
Use Tax Replacement Fund from the State and Local Sales Tax
Reform Fund as provided in Section 6z-17 of the State Finance
Act, and 5% of the revenue realized by the Chicago Transit
Authority as financial assistance from the City of Chicago
from the proceeds of any tax imposed by the City of Chicago
under Section 8-3-19 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
    Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
beginning on July 6, 2017 (the effective date of Public Act
100-23), those amounts required under this paragraph (2) of
subsection (a) to be transferred by the Treasurer into the
Public Transportation Fund from the General Revenue Fund shall
be directly deposited into the Public Transportation Fund as
the revenues are realized from the taxes indicated.
    (3) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (4), as soon
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


as possible after the first day of January, 2009 and each month
thereafter and until the first day of the month following the
date that the Department receives revenues from increased
taxes under Section 4.03(m) as authorized by this amendatory
Act of the 104th General Assembly, upon certification of the
Department of Revenue with respect to the taxes collected
under Section 4.03, the Comptroller shall order transferred
and the Treasurer shall transfer from the General Revenue Fund
to the Public Transportation Fund an amount equal to 25% of the
net   revenue,   before   the   deduction   of    the   serviceman    and
retailer   discounts   pursuant    to   Section    9    of   the   Service
Occupation Tax Act and Section 3 of the Retailers' Occupation
Tax Act, realized from (i) 20% of the proceeds of any tax
imposed by the Authority at a rate of 1.25% in Cook County,
(ii) 25% of the proceeds of any tax imposed by the Authority at
the rate of 1% in Cook County, and (iii) one-third of the
proceeds of any tax imposed by the Authority at the rate of
0.75% in the Counties of DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, and
Will, all pursuant to Section 4.03, and the Comptroller shall
order transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer from the
General Revenue Fund to the Public Transportation Fund (iv) an
amount equal to 25% of the revenue realized by the Chicago
Transit Authority as financial assistance from the City of
Chicago from the proceeds of any tax imposed by the City of
Chicago under Section 8-3-19 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
      On the first day of the month following the date that the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Department   receives     revenues   from   increased   taxes    under
Section 4.03(m) as authorized by Public Act 104-457 this
amendatory   Act    of    the   104th   General     Assembly,        upon
certification of the Department of Revenue with respect to the
taxes collected under Section 4.03, the Comptroller shall
order transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer from the
General Revenue Fund to the Public Transportation Fund an
amount equal to 25% of the net revenue, before the deduction of
the serviceman and retailer discounts pursuant to Section 9 of
the Service Occupation Tax Act and Section 3 of the Retailers'
Occupation   Tax   Act,   realized   from   (i)   one-sixth     of   the
proceeds of any tax imposed by the Authority at a rate of 1.5%
in Cook County, (ii) 20% of the proceeds of any tax imposed by
the Authority at the rate of 1.25% in Cook County, and (iii)
25% of the proceeds of any tax imposed by the Authority at the
rate of 1% in the Counties of DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, and
Will, all pursuant to Section 4.03, and the Comptroller shall
order transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer from the
General Revenue Fund to the Public Transportation Fund (iv) an
amount equal to 25% of the revenue realized by the Chicago
Transit Authority as financial assistance from the City of
Chicago from the proceeds of any tax imposed by the City of
Chicago under Section 8-3-19 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
    Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
beginning on July 6, 2017 (the effective date of Public Act
100-23), those amounts required under this paragraph (3) of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


subsection (a) to be transferred by the Treasurer into the
Public Transportation Fund from the General Revenue Fund shall
be directly deposited into the Public Transportation Fund as
the revenues are realized from the taxes indicated.
    (4) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
for the State fiscal year beginning July 1, 2024 and each State
fiscal year thereafter, the first $150,000,000 that would have
otherwise been transferred from the General Revenue Fund and
deposited into the Public Transportation Fund as provided in
paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this subsection (a) shall
instead be transferred from the Road Fund by the Treasurer
upon certification by the Department of Revenue and order of
the Comptroller. For the State fiscal year beginning July 1,
2024, only, the next $75,000,000 that would have otherwise
been transferred from the General Revenue Fund and deposited
into the Public Transportation Fund as provided in paragraphs
(1), (2), and (3) of this subsection (a) shall instead be
transferred from the Road Fund and deposited into the Public
Transportation Fund by the Treasurer upon certification by the
Department of Revenue and order of the Comptroller. The funds
authorized and transferred pursuant to Public Act 103-588 this
amendatory Act of the 103rd General Assembly are not intended
or planned for road construction projects. For the State
fiscal year beginning July 1, 2024, only, the next $50,000,000
that would have otherwise been transferred from the General
Revenue Fund and deposited into the Public Transportation Fund
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


as provided in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this subsection
(a) shall instead be transferred from the Underground Storage
Tank Fund and deposited into the Public Transportation Fund by
the Treasurer upon certification by the Department of Revenue
and order of the Comptroller. The remaining balance shall be
deposited each State fiscal year as otherwise provided in
paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this subsection (a).
      (5) (Blank).
      (6) (Blank).
      (7) For State fiscal year 2020 only, notwithstanding any
provision of law to the contrary, the total amount of revenue
and   deposits    under    this   Section     attributable   to   revenues
realized during State fiscal year 2020 shall be reduced by 5%.
      (8) For State fiscal year 2021 only, notwithstanding any
provision of law to the contrary, the total amount of revenue
and   deposits    under    this   Section     attributable   to   revenues
realized during State fiscal year 2021 shall be reduced by 5%.
      (b)(1) All moneys deposited in the Public Transportation
Fund and the Northern Illinois Transit Authority Occupation
and Use Tax Replacement Fund, whether deposited pursuant to
this Section or otherwise, are allocated to the Authority,
except for amounts appropriated to the Office of the Executive
Inspector General as authorized by subsection (h) of Section
4.03.3 and amounts transferred to the Audit Expense Fund
pursuant   to    Section   6z-27   of   the    State   Finance    Act.   The
Comptroller, as soon as possible after each monthly transfer
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


provided in this Section and after each deposit into the
Public Transportation Fund, shall order the Treasurer to pay
to the Authority out of the Public Transportation Fund the
amount    so    transferred       or   deposited.       Any    Additional        State
Assistance and Additional Financial Assistance paid to the
Authority       under   this      Section     shall      be    expended     by    the
Authority      for   its    purposes     as   provided        in   this    Act.   The
balance of the amounts paid to the Authority from the Public
Transportation Fund shall be expended by the Authority as
provided       in   Section    4.03.3.      The    Comptroller,       as   soon     as
possible after each deposit into the Northern Illinois Transit
Authority Occupation and Use Tax Replacement Fund provided in
this Section and, in Section 6z-17 of the State Finance Act,
shall order the Treasurer to pay to the Authority out of the
Northern Illinois Transit Authority Occupation and Use Tax
Replacement Fund the amount so deposited. Such amounts paid to
the Authority may be expended by it for its purposes as
provided       in    this     Act.     The        provisions       directing      the
distributions from the Public Transportation Fund and the
Northern Illinois Transit Authority Occupation and Use Tax
Replacement Fund provided for in this Section shall constitute
an irrevocable and continuing appropriation of all amounts as
provided herein. The State Treasurer and State Comptroller are
hereby    authorized        and   directed        to   make    distributions        as
provided in this Section.
    (2)     Provided,         however,       no     moneys     deposited         under
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


subsection (a) of this Section shall be paid from the Public
Transportation Fund to the Authority or its assignee for any
fiscal year until the Authority has certified to the Governor,
the Comptroller, and the Mayor of the City of Chicago that it
has adopted for that fiscal year an Annual Budget and 2-Year
Financial Plan meeting the requirements in Section 4.01(b).
      (3) For the purposes of this Section, beginning in Fiscal
Year 2027, the General Assembly shall appropriate an amount
from the Public Transportation Fund equal to the sum total of
funds projected to be paid to the participants under Section 9
of the Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act,
Section 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, and Section 3 of
the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act. If the General Assembly
fails to make appropriations sufficient to cover the amounts
projected to be paid under Section 9 of the Use Tax Act,
Section 9 of the Service Use Tax Act, Section 9 of the Service
Occupation Tax Act and Section 3 of the Retailers' Occupation
Tax Act, then this Act shall constitute an irrevocable and
continuing appropriation from the Public Transportation Fund
of all amounts necessary for those purposes.
      (c) In recognition of the efforts of the Authority to
enhance the mass transportation facilities under its control,
the   State    shall   provide   financial   assistance   ("Additional
State Assistance") in excess of the amounts transferred to the
Authority from the General Revenue Fund under subsection (a)
of    this    Section.   Additional   State     Assistance   shall   be
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


calculated as provided in subsection (d), but shall in no
event exceed the following specified amounts with respect to
the following State fiscal years:
        1990                          $5,000,000;
        1991                          $5,000,000;
        1992                          $10,000,000;
        1993                          $10,000,000;
        1994                          $20,000,000;
        1995                          $30,000,000;
        1996                          $40,000,000;
        1997                          $50,000,000;
        1998                          $55,000,000; and
        each year thereafter          $55,000,000.
    (c-5)   The     State     shall   provide      financial   assistance
("Additional      Financial    Assistance")        in   addition   to   the
Additional State Assistance provided by subsection (c) and the
amounts transferred to the Authority from the General Revenue
Fund   under   subsection      (a)    of    this    Section.   Additional
Financial Assistance provided by this subsection shall be
calculated as provided in subsection (d), but shall in no
event exceed the following specified amounts with respect to
the following State fiscal years:
        2000                          $0;
        2001                          $16,000,000;
        2002                          $35,000,000;
        2003                          $54,000,000;
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        2004                   $73,000,000;
        2005                   $93,000,000; and
        each year thereafter   $100,000,000.
    (d) Beginning with State fiscal year 1990 and continuing
for each State fiscal year thereafter, the Authority shall
annually certify to the State Comptroller and State Treasurer,
separately with respect to each of subdivisions (g)(2) and
(g)(3) of Section 4.04 of this Act, the following amounts:
        (1) The amount necessary and required, during the
    State fiscal year with respect to which the certification
    is made, to pay its obligations for debt service on all
    outstanding bonds or notes issued by the Authority under
    subdivisions (g)(2) and (g)(3) of Section 4.04 of this
    Act.
        (2) An estimate of the amount necessary and required
    to pay its obligations for debt service for any bonds or
    notes which the Authority anticipates it will issue under
    subdivisions (g)(2) and (g)(3) of Section 4.04 during that
    State fiscal year.
        (3) Its debt service savings during the preceding
    State fiscal year from refunding or advance refunding of
    bonds or notes issued under subdivisions (g)(2) and (g)(3)
    of Section 4.04.
        (4) The amount of interest, if any, earned by the
    Authority during the previous State fiscal year on the
    proceeds of bonds or notes issued pursuant to subdivisions
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (g)(2) and (g)(3) of Section 4.04, other than refunding or
    advance refunding bonds or notes.
    The certification shall include a specific schedule of
debt service payments, including the date and amount of each
payment for all outstanding bonds or notes and an estimated
schedule of anticipated debt service for all bonds and notes
it intends to issue, if any, during that State fiscal year,
including the estimated date and estimated amount of each
payment.
    Immediately   upon   the   issuance    of   bonds   for   which   an
estimated schedule of debt service payments was prepared, the
Authority shall file an amended certification with respect to
item (2) above, to specify the actual schedule of debt service
payments, including the date and amount of each payment, for
the remainder of the State fiscal year.
    On the first day of each month of the State fiscal year in
which there are bonds outstanding with respect to which the
certification   is   made,   the   State   Comptroller   shall   order
transferred and the State Treasurer shall transfer from the
Road Fund to the Public Transportation Fund the Additional
State Assistance and Additional Financial Assistance in an
amount equal to the aggregate of (i) one-twelfth of the sum of
the amounts certified under items (1) and (3) above less the
amount certified under item (4) above, plus (ii) the amount
required to pay debt service on bonds and notes issued during
the fiscal year, if any, divided by the number of months
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


remaining in the fiscal year after the date of issuance, or
some smaller portion as may be necessary under subsection (c)
or (c-5) of this Section for the relevant State fiscal year,
plus (iii) any cumulative deficiencies in transfers for prior
months, until an amount equal to the sum of the amounts
certified under items (1) and (3) above, plus the actual debt
service   certified   under     item   (2)   above,     less   the   amount
certified under item (4) above, has been transferred; except
that these transfers are subject to the following limits:
          (A) In no event shall the total transfers in any State
    fiscal year relating to outstanding bonds and notes issued
    by the Authority under subdivision (g)(2) of Section 4.04
    exceed the lesser of the annual maximum amount specified
    in subsection (c) or the sum of the amounts certified
    under   items   (1)   and   (3)    above,    plus   the    actual   debt
    service certified under item (2) above, less the amount
    certified under item (4) above, with respect to those
    bonds and notes.
          (B) In no event shall the total transfers in any State
    fiscal year relating to outstanding bonds and notes issued
    by the Authority under subdivision (g)(3) of Section 4.04
    exceed the lesser of the annual maximum amount specified
    in subsection (c-5) or the sum of the amounts certified
    under   items   (1)   and   (3)    above,    plus   the    actual   debt
    service certified under item (2) above, less the amount
    certified under item (4) above, with respect to those
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    bonds and notes.
    The term "outstanding" does not include bonds or notes for
which refunding or advance refunding bonds or notes have been
issued.
    (e) Neither Additional State Assistance nor Additional
Financial    Assistance    may   be    pledged,      either     directly   or
indirectly as general revenues of the Authority, as security
for any bonds issued by the Authority. The Authority may not
assign its right to receive Additional State Assistance or
Additional    Financial     Assistance,       or     direct     payment    of
Additional     State      Assistance     or        Additional     Financial
Assistance, to a trustee or any other entity for the payment of
debt service on its bonds.
    (f) The certification required under subsection (d) with
respect to outstanding bonds and notes of the Authority shall
be filed as early as practicable before the beginning of the
State fiscal year to which it relates. The certification shall
be revised as may be necessary to accurately state the debt
service requirements of the Authority.
    (g) (Blank)., and 2026
    (h) (Blank).
(Source: P.A. 103-281, eff. 1-1-24; 103-588, eff. 6-5-24;
104-434, eff. 11-21-25; 104-457, eff. 6-1-26; revised 1-7-26.)


    Section 5-80. The School Code is amended by                    changing
Sections 2-3.170 and 14-7.05 and by adding Section 29-5.3 as
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


follows:


    (105 ILCS 5/2-3.170)
    Sec. 2-3.170. Property tax relief pool grants.
    (a) As used in this Section,
    "EAV" means equalized assessed valuation as defined under
Section 18-8.15 of this Code.
    "Property tax multiplier" equals one minus the square of
the school district's Local Capacity Percentage, as defined in
Section 18-8.15 of this Code.
    "Local capacity percentage multiplier" means one minus the
school district's Local Capacity Percentage, as defined in
Section 18-8.15.
    "State Board" means the State Board of Education.
    (b)    Subject    to   appropriation,     the   State     Board   shall
provide grants to eligible school districts that provide tax
relief to the school district's residents, which may be no
greater than 1% of EAV for a unit district, 0.69% of EAV for an
elementary school district, or 0.31% of EAV for a high school
district, as provided in this Section.
    (b-5) School districts may apply for property tax relief
under this Section concurrently to setting their levy for the
fiscal year. The intended relief may not be greater than 1% of
the EAV for a unit district, 0.69% of the EAV for an elementary
school    district,   or   0.31%   of   the   EAV   for   a   high    school
district, multiplied by the school district's local capacity
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


percentage       multiplier.        The     State        Board     shall     process
applications for relief, providing a grant to those districts
with the highest adjusted operating tax rate, as determined by
those districts with the highest percentage of the simple
average adjusted operating tax rate of districts of the same
type, either elementary, high school, or unit, first, in an
amount equal to the intended relief multiplied by the property
tax multiplier. The State Board shall provide grants to school
districts in order of priority until the property tax relief
pool is exhausted. If more school districts apply for relief
under this subsection than there are funds available, the
State    Board    must    distribute        the     grants       and   prorate   any
remaining funds to the final school district that qualifies
for grant relief. The abatement amount for that district must
be equal to the grant amount divided by the property tax
multiplier.
      If a school district receives the State Board's approval
of a grant under this Section by March 1 of the fiscal year,
the   school     district     shall       present    a    duly     authorized    and
approved abatement resolution by March 30 of the fiscal year
to the county clerk of each county in which the school files
its levy, authorizing the county clerk to lower the school
district's levy by the amount designated in its application to
the State Board. When the preceding requisites are satisfied,
the county clerk shall reduce the amount collected for the
school    district       by   the    amount       indicated       in   the    school
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


district's abatement resolution for that fiscal year.
    (c) (Blank).
    (d) School districts seeking grants under this Section
shall apply to the State Board each year. All applications to
the State Board for grants shall include the amount of the tax
relief intended by the school district.
    (e) Each year, based on the most recent available data
provided by school districts pursuant to Section 18-8.15 of
this   Code,   the   State   Board   shall   calculate   the   order   of
priority for grant eligibility under subsection (b-5) and
publish a list of the school districts eligible for relief.
The State Board shall provide grants in the manner provided
under subsection (b-5).
    (f) The State Board shall publish a final list of eligible
grant recipients and provide payment of the grants by March 1
of each year.
    (g) If notice of eligibility from the State Board is
received by a school district by March 1, then by March 30, the
school district shall file an abatement of its property tax
levy in an amount equal to the grant received under this
Section divided by the property tax multiplier. Payment of all
grant amounts shall be made by June 1 each fiscal year. The
State Superintendent of Education shall establish the timeline
in such cases in which notice cannot be made by March 1.
    (h) The total property tax relief allowable to a school
district under this Section shall be calculated based on the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


total amount of reduction in the school district's aggregate
extension. The total grant shall be equal to the reduction,
multiplied by the property tax multiplier. The reduction shall
be equal to 1% of a district's EAV for a unit school district,
0.69% for an elementary school district, or 0.31% for a high
school district, multiplied by the school district's local
capacity percentage multiplier.
    (i) If the State Board does not expend all appropriations
allocated pursuant to this Section, then any remaining funds
shall be allocated pursuant to Section 18-8.15 of this Code.
    (j)    The    State   Board   shall   prioritize   payments      under
Section 18-8.15 of this Code over payments under this Section,
if necessary.
    (k) Any grants received by a school district shall be
included in future calculations of that school district's Base
Funding Minimum under Section 18-8.15 of this Code. Beginning
with Fiscal Year 2020 and through Fiscal Year 2026, if a school
district receives a grant under this Section, the school
district must present to the county clerk a duly authorized
and approved abatement resolution by March 30 for the year in
which     the    school   district   receives   the    grant   and    the
successive fiscal year following the receipt of the grant,
authorizing the county clerk to lower the school district's
levy by the amount designated in its original application to
the State Board. Beginning with Fiscal Year 2027, if a school
district receives a grant under this Section, the school
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


district must present to the county clerk a duly authorized
and approved abatement resolution by March 30 for the year in
which   the   school       district     receives    the    grant   and    the   2
successive fiscal years following the receipt of the grant,
authorizing the county clerk to lower the school district's
levy by the amount designated in its original application to
the State Board. After receiving a resolution, the county
clerk must reduce the amount collected for the school district
by the amount indicated in the school district's abatement
resolution for that fiscal year. If a school district does not
abate in this amount for the successive fiscal year, the grant
amount may not be included in the school district's Base
Funding Minimum under Section 18-8.15 in the fiscal year
following     the    tax    year   in    which     the    abatement      is   not
authorized and in any future fiscal year thereafter, and the
county clerk must notify the State Board of the increase no
later 30 days after it occurs.
    (l) In the immediate 3 2 consecutive tax years following
receipt of a Property Tax Pool Relief Grant, the aggregate
extension base of any school district receiving a grant under
this Section, for purposes of the Property Tax Extension
Limitation    Law,    shall    include     the     tax    relief   the    school
district provided in the previous taxable year under this
Section.
(Source: P.A. 103-780, eff. 8-2-24.)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (105 ILCS 5/14-7.05)
    Sec. 14-7.05. Placement in residential facility; payment
of educational costs. For any student with a disability in a
residential facility placement made or paid for by an Illinois
public State agency or made by any court in this State, the
school district of residence as determined pursuant to this
Article is responsible for the costs of educating the child
and shall be reimbursed for those costs in accordance with
this   Code.     Subject         to     this   Section    and    relevant          State
appropriation,           the           resident     district's            financial
responsibility        and      reimbursement       must    be    calculated           in
accordance with the provisions of Section 14-7.02 of this
Code. In those instances in which a district receives a block
grant pursuant to Article 1D of this Code, the district's
financial responsibility is limited to the actual educational
costs of the placement, which must be paid by the district from
its block grant appropriation. Resident district financial
responsibility and reimbursement applies for both residential
facilities that are approved by the State Board of Education
and non-approved facilities, subject to the requirements of
this Section. The Illinois placing agency or court remains
responsible     for      funding         the   residential      portion       of    the
placement and for notifying the resident district prior to the
placement,      except      in        emergency   situations.      For    a        child
residing   in    a    long-term,          acute   care    facility       serving      a
majority of patients who are (i) minor children and (ii)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Medicaid-eligible        in     West        Harvey-Dixmoor     Public      Schools
District 147 or Thornton Township High School District 205,
the following shall apply:
          (1) If the child is not currently enrolled in a school
    district or if the resident school district is unknown,
    the    appropriate        resident           school    district     must    be
    identified and the child must be enrolled in that district
    prior to the placement of the child, except in emergency
    situations. The residential facility shall require the
    parent or guardian of the child to sign a contract upon
    placement in the residential facility affirming that the
    parent or guardian understands the parent's or guardian's
    obligations under State law, including the obligation to
    enroll the child in the appropriate school district of
    residence at time of placement or upon the child reaching
    the age of 3. The identified school district of residence
    under this Article may not deny enrollment on the basis of
    the child's placement.
          (2) For the 2025-2026 school year and every school
    year thereafter, for a child with an out-of-state resident
    district whose out-of-state resident district has refused
    to    enroll   the    child        in    the   district,    despite      being
    contacted      by    both     the       nonpublic      school   within     the
    applicable facility and the State Board of Education, the
    resident    district        shall       be   the   student's    most    recent
    resident district in Illinois and that resident district
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    shall     be   the    responsible   payor.       The   reimbursement     of
    receipts paid under these circumstances shall be paid out
    of the line item as found in Section 14-7.03 18-3 of this
    Code.
            (3)    For    fiscal     year     2027    only,     subject      to
    appropriation, the equivalent of each applicable child's
    tuition receipts for the 2025-2026 school year, as found
    in paragraph (1), shall be paid to the resident district
    determined       by   this     Section.    The    provisions      of    this
    paragraph (3), other than this sentence, are inoperative
    after June 30, 2027.
The residential facility in which the student is placed shall
notify the resident district of the student's enrollment as
soon   as    practicable     after    the   placement.      Failure    of   the
placing agency or court to notify the resident district prior
to the placement does not absolve the resident district of
financial responsibility for the educational costs of the
placement; however, the resident district shall not become
financially responsible unless and until it receives written
notice of the placement by either the placing agency, court,
or residential facility. The placing agency or parent shall
request an individualized education program (IEP) meeting from
the resident district if the placement would entail additional
educational services beyond the student's current IEP. The
district of residence shall retain control of the IEP process,
and any changes to the IEP must be done in compliance with the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


federal Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.
      Prior to the placement of a child in an out-of-state
special education residential facility, the placing agency or
court must refer to the child or the child's parent or guardian
the       option   to   place   the   child   in   a   special   education
residential facility located within this State, if any, that
provides treatment and services comparable to those provided
by the out-of-state special education residential facility.
The placing agency or court must review annually the placement
of a child in an out-of-state special education residential
facility. As a part of the review, the placing agency or court
must refer to the child or the child's parent or guardian the
option to place the child in a comparable special education
residential facility located within this State, if any.
      Payments shall be made by the resident district to the
entity providing the educational services, whether the entity
is the residential facility or the school district wherein the
facility is located, no less than once per quarter unless
otherwise agreed to in writing by the parties.
      A    residential    facility    providing    educational   services
within the facility, but not approved by the State Board of
Education, is required to demonstrate proof to the State Board
of (i) appropriate licensure of teachers for the student
population, (ii) age-appropriate curriculum, (iii) enrollment
and attendance data, and (iv) the ability to implement the
child's IEP. A school district is under no obligation to pay
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


such a residential facility unless and until such proof is
provided to the State Board's satisfaction.
    When    a    dispute   arises     over   the      determination    of    the
district    of    residence     under   this     Section,    any    person    or
entity, including without limitation a school district or
residential      facility,      may   make   a   written     request   for    a
residency decision to the State Superintendent of Education,
who, upon review of materials submitted and any other items of
information he or she may request for submission, shall issue
his or her decision in writing. The decision of the State
Superintendent of Education is final.
(Source: P.A. 104-202, eff. 8-15-25.)


    (105 ILCS 5/29-5.3 new)
    Sec. 29-5.3. Transportation funding study. The State Board
of Education shall, from appropriations enacted for State
Fiscal Year 2027, conduct a study on best funding practices
for regular, vocational, and special education transportation.
The study shall consider, but shall not be limited to, any
potential       impacts    of     incorporating        the   transportation
reimbursements      currently     mandated       by   this   Code   into     the
evidence-based funding formula provided under Section 18-8.15
of this Code.


    Section 5-85. The Illinois Insurance Code is amended by
changing Section 513b2 as follows:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b



    (215 ILCS 5/513b2)
    Sec. 513b2. Licensure requirements.
    (a) Beginning on July 1, 2020, to conduct business in this
State, a pharmacy benefit manager must register with the
Director. To initially register or renew a registration, a
pharmacy benefit manager shall submit:
        (1) A nonrefundable fee not to exceed $500.
        (2) A copy of the registrant's corporate charter,
    articles of incorporation, or other charter document.
        (3)   A   completed   registration   form   adopted   by   the
    Director containing:
              (A) The name and address of the registrant.
              (B) The name, address, and official position of
        each officer and director of the registrant.
    (b) The registrant shall report any change in information
required under this Section to the Director in writing within
60 days after the change occurs.
    (c) Upon receipt of a completed registration form, the
required documents, and the registration fee, the Director
shall issue a registration certificate. The certificate may be
in paper or electronic form, and shall clearly indicate the
expiration date of the registration. Registration certificates
are nontransferable.
    (d) A registration certificate is valid for 2 years after
its date of issue. The Director shall adopt by rule an initial
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


registration fee not to exceed $500 and a registration renewal
fee not to exceed $500, both of which shall be nonrefundable.
Total fees may not exceed the cost of administering this
Section.
    (e) The Department shall adopt any rules necessary to
implement this Section.
    (f) On or before August 1, 2025, the pharmacy benefit
manager shall submit a report to the Department that lists the
name of each health benefit plan it administers, provides the
number of Illinois residents who are covered individuals for
each health benefit plan as of the date of submission, and
provides       the   total   number   of    Illinois    residents   who   are
covered    individuals       across   all    health    benefit    plans   the
pharmacy benefit manager administers. On or before September
1, 2025, a registered pharmacy benefit manager, as a condition
of its authority to transact business in this State, must
submit to the Department an amount equal to $15 or an alternate
amount as determined by the Director by rule per covered
individual enrolled by the pharmacy benefit manager in this
State, as detailed in the report submitted to the Department
under this subsection, during the preceding calendar year. On
or before September 1, 2026 and each September 1 thereafter,
payments submitted under this subsection shall be based on the
number    of    Illinois     residents     who   are   covered   individuals
reported to the Department in Section 513b1.1.
    If a pharmacy benefit manager submitted a payment or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


failed to submit a payment under this subsection by September
2, 2025, and if the amount paid or the failure to pay was based
on   the     pharmacy       benefit    manager's      determination       of
applicability or inapplicability to any of its health benefit
plans or covered individuals in a manner contrary to the
requirements clarified by this amendatory Act of the 104th
General Assembly, then the pharmacy benefit manager shall
submit a revised report under this subsection by December 1,
2025 in conformity with these clarified requirements. The
revised    report   shall     relate   to   health    benefit    plans   and
Illinois residents who were covered individuals as of the date
of the previous report. When submitting the revised report,
the pharmacy benefit manager shall identify the types of
health benefit plans and covered individuals that it has added
or   removed    from    its     previous     report    because     of    the
clarification of applicability. Additionally:
           (1) If the revised report indicates that the total
     number of Illinois residents who were covered individuals
     was too low in the previous report, the pharmacy benefit
     manager shall pay the difference to the Department by
     January 2, 2026.
           (2) If the revised report indicates that the total
     number of Illinois residents who were covered individuals
     was too high in the previous report, the pharmacy benefit
     manager may request a refund from the Department to the
     extent provided in subsection (h). The refund request
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    shall be included with the submission of the revised
    report on or before December 1, 2025.
    (g) All amounts collected under this Section shall be
deposited into the Prescription Drug Affordability Fund, which
is hereby created as a special fund in the State treasury. Of
the amounts collected under this Section each fiscal year, at
the direction of the Department, the Comptroller shall direct
and the Treasurer shall transfer the first $25,000,000 into
the DCEO Projects Fund for grants to support pharmacies under
Section 605-70 of the Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity Law; then, at the direction of the Department, the
Comptroller shall direct and the Treasurer shall transfer the
remainder of the amounts in excess of $1,500,000 collected
under this Section into the General Revenue Fund.
    (h)    Whenever    it   appears   to    the   satisfaction     of    the
Director   that   because    of    some   mistake   of   fact,   error    in
calculation, or erroneous interpretation of a statute of this
State   that   any    pharmacy    benefit   manager   has   paid   to    the
Department an amount under subsection (f) in excess of the
amount required by subsection (f), the Director shall have the
power to refund to the pharmacy benefit manager the amount of
the excess. No refund shall be paid in relation to any health
benefit plan to which State law makes this Article applicable.
No refund shall be paid without the pharmacy benefit manager
first submitting a revised version of the report described in
subsection (f) along with an explanation of the mistake of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


fact, error in calculation, or erroneous interpretation of
State statute that caused the overpayment. No refund shall be
paid for any request submitted after December 1, or in a year
when that date falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the first working
day after December 1, of the same calendar year for which a
report was due under subsection (f) that the pharmacy benefit
manager claims to have been the basis for an overpayment. If
the Director approves a refund, it shall be paid:
          (1) by applying the amount thereof toward the payment
    of fees or other charges already due to the Department, or
    which may thereafter become due to the Department, from
    that pharmacy benefit manager until the excess has been
    fully refunded; or
          (2) upon a written request from the pharmacy benefit
    manager, the Director shall provide a cash refund within
    120 days after receipt of the written request if all
    necessary information has been filed with the Department
    in order for it to perform an audit of the report described
    in subsection (f) or in Section 513b1.1 for the year in
    which the overpayment occurred; or within 120 days after
    the    date   the   Department   receives   all   the   necessary
    information to perform the audit.
              (A) The Director shall not provide a cash refund
          if there are insufficient funds in the Prescription
          Drug Affordability Fund to provide a cash refund or if
          the amount of the overpayment is less than $100. Funds
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        shall not be deemed sufficient if the transfer to the
        DCEO Projects Fund described in subsection (g) of
        Section 513b2 cannot be fully satisfied for the year
        of the overpayment.
              (B)   Any   cash   refund    shall    be     paid    from   the
        Prescription Drug Affordability Fund.
        (3) In the absence of a rule specific to pharmacy
    benefit    managers,     paragraphs    (1)     and     (2)    shall    be
    implemented in the same manner as provided by Department
    rules enacted under Section 412 of this Code to the extent
    the rules do not conflict with this subsection.
    (i) Subject to appropriation, moneys in the Prescription
Drug Affordability Fund shall be used by the Department for
costs, including refunds, associated with the administration
and operations of the Prescription Drug Affordability Act.
(Source:   P.A.     104-2,   eff.   7-1-25;      104-27,    eff.    7-1-25;
104-439, eff. 12-2-25.)


    Section 5-90. The Illinois Health Benefits Exchange Law is
amended by adding Section 5-35 as follows:


    (215 ILCS 122/5-35 new)
    Sec.   5-35.     Transfers      from   the     Insurance       Producer
Administration Fund. During State Fiscal Year 2027 only, at
the direction of and upon notification from the Director of
Insurance, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Treasurer shall transfer up to $10,000,000 from the Insurance
Producer Administration Fund to the Illinois Health Benefits
Exchange Fund.


    Section 5-92. The Public Utilities Act is amended by
adding Section 4-102 as follows:


    (220 ILCS 5/4-102 new)
    Sec.    4-102.     Acquisition      of   the   Leland      Building   in
Springfield.
    (a) From appropriations enacted for State Fiscal Year
2027, the Commission may, on behalf of the State of Illinois
and subject to the Public Contract Fraud Act, acquire and
maintain real property commonly referred to as the Leland
Building,   parcel     number   14-34.0-134-026         in   the   City   of
Springfield, Sangamon County. Real property acquired under
this   Section   may    be   acquired    subject   to    any    third-party
interests in the property that do not prevent the Commission
from realizing the intended beneficial use of the property.
    (b) Supplemental to any other powers granted in law, the
Executive Director may enter into contracts necessary and
appropriate to accomplish the purposes of this Section.
    (c) This Section is inoperative on and after July 1, 2027.


    Section 5-95. The Illinois Horse Racing Act of 1975 is
amended by changing Sections 30 and 31 as follows:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b



    (230 ILCS 5/30) (from Ch. 8, par. 37-30)
    Sec. 30. (a) The General Assembly declares that it is the
policy of this State to encourage the breeding of thoroughbred
horses in this State and the ownership of such horses by
residents of this State in order to provide for: sufficient
numbers of high quality thoroughbred horses to participate in
thoroughbred racing meetings in this State, and to establish
and preserve the agricultural and commercial benefits of such
breeding and racing industries to the State of Illinois. It is
the intent of the General Assembly to further this policy by
the provisions of this Act.
    (b) Each organization licensee conducting a thoroughbred
racing meeting pursuant to this Act shall provide at least two
races each day limited to Illinois conceived and foaled horses
or Illinois foaled horses or both. A minimum of 6 races shall
be conducted each week limited to Illinois conceived and
foaled or Illinois foaled horses or both. No horses shall be
permitted to start in such races unless duly registered under
the rules of the Department of Agriculture.
    (c) Conditions of races under subsection (b) shall be
commensurate with past performance, quality, and class of
Illinois   conceived    and    foaled   and   Illinois   foaled   horses
available. If, however, sufficient competition cannot be had
among horses of that class on any day, the races may, with
consent    of   the   Board,   be   eliminated    for    that   day   and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


substitute races provided.
    (d) There is hereby created a special fund of the State
treasury to be known as the Illinois Thoroughbred Breeders
Fund.
    Beginning on June 28, 2019 (the effective date of Public
Act 101-31), the Illinois Thoroughbred Breeders Fund shall
become a non-appropriated trust fund held separate from State
moneys. Expenditures from this Fund shall no longer be subject
to appropriation.
    Except as provided in subsection (g) of Section 27 of this
Act, 8.5% of all the moneys monies received by the State as
privilege taxes on Thoroughbred racing meetings shall be paid
into the Illinois Thoroughbred Breeders Fund.
    Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
amounts deposited into the Illinois Thoroughbred Breeders Fund
from revenues generated by gaming pursuant to an organization
gaming license issued under the Illinois Gambling Act after
June 28, 2019 (the effective date of Public Act 101-31) shall
be in addition to tax and fee amounts paid under this Section
for calendar year 2019 and thereafter.
    (e)    The   Illinois   Thoroughbred   Breeders   Fund   shall   be
administered by the Department of Agriculture with the advice
and assistance of the Advisory Board created in subsection (f)
of this Section.
    (f) The Illinois Thoroughbred Breeders Fund Advisory Board
shall     consist   of   the   Director    of   the   Department     of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Agriculture, who shall serve as Chairman; a member of the
Illinois Racing Board, designated by it; 2 representatives of
the    organization      licensees      conducting        thoroughbred      racing
meetings,       recommended    by    them;    2     representatives         of   the
Illinois      Thoroughbred         Breeders        and    Owners       Foundation,
recommended      by    it;   one    representative         of   the    Horsemen's
Benevolent and Protective Association; and one representative
from    the      Illinois     Thoroughbred         Horsemen's         Association.
Advisory Board members shall serve for 2 years commencing
January 1 of each odd numbered year. If representatives of the
organization          licensees     conducting           thoroughbred       racing
meetings,       the    Illinois     Thoroughbred         Breeders     and   Owners
Foundation,       the     Horsemen's       Benevolent           and    Protective
Protection       Association,        and     the     Illinois         Thoroughbred
Horsemen's Association have not been recommended by January 1,
of each odd numbered year, the Director of the Department of
Agriculture shall make an appointment for the organization
failing    to    so    recommend    a   member      of   the    Advisory    Board.
Advisory Board members shall receive no compensation for their
services as members but shall be reimbursed for all actual and
necessary expenses and disbursements incurred in the execution
of their official duties.
      (g) Moneys appropriated Monies expended from the Illinois
Thoroughbred Breeders Fund shall be expended by the Department
of Agriculture, with the advice and assistance of the Illinois
Thoroughbred Breeders Fund Advisory Board, for the following
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


purposes only:
        (1) To provide purse supplements to owners of horses
    participating in races limited to Illinois conceived and
    foaled     and    Illinois   foaled    horses.    Any   such     purse
    supplements shall not be included in and shall be paid in
    addition     to   any   purses,    stakes,   or   breeders'     awards
    offered by each organization licensee as determined by
    agreement     between    such     organization    licensee     and   an
    organization representing the horsemen. No moneys monies
    from the Illinois Thoroughbred Breeders Fund shall be used
    to provide purse supplements for claiming races in which
    the minimum claiming price is less than $7,500.
        (2) To provide stakes and awards to be paid to the
    owners of the winning horses in certain races limited to
    Illinois conceived and foaled and Illinois foaled horses
    designated as stakes races.
        (2.5) To provide an award to the owner or owners of an
    Illinois conceived and foaled or Illinois foaled horse
    that wins a maiden special weight, an allowance, overnight
    handicap race, or claiming race with claiming price of
    $10,000 or more providing the race is not restricted to
    Illinois conceived and foaled or Illinois foaled horses.
    Awards shall also be provided to the owner or owners of
    Illinois conceived and foaled and Illinois foaled horses
    that place second or third in those races. To the extent
    that additional moneys are required to pay the minimum
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    additional awards of 40% of the purse the horse earns for
    placing    first,    second,     or    third    in    those   races   for
    Illinois foaled horses and of 60% of the purse the horse
    earns for placing first, second, or third in those races
    for Illinois conceived and foaled horses, those moneys
    shall be provided from the purse account at the track
    where earned.
        (3) To provide stallion awards to the owner or owners
    of any stallion that is duly registered with the Illinois
    Thoroughbred Breeders Fund Program whose duly registered
    Illinois    conceived      and   foaled      offspring     wins   a   race
    conducted at an Illinois thoroughbred racing meeting other
    than a claiming race, provided that the stallion stood
    service within Illinois at the time the offspring was
    conceived and that the stallion did not stand for service
    outside of Illinois at any time during the year in which
    the offspring was conceived.
        (4) To       provide   $75,000 annually for           purses to    be
    distributed to county fairs that provide for the running
    of races during each county fair exclusively for the
    thoroughbreds       conceived    and    foaled       in   Illinois.   The
    conditions of the races shall be developed by the county
    fair association and reviewed by the Department with the
    advice     and    assistance     of    the     Illinois     Thoroughbred
    Breeders Fund Advisory Board. There shall be no wagering
    of any kind on the running of Illinois conceived and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    foaled races at county fairs.
        (4.1) To provide purse money for an Illinois stallion
    stakes program.
        (5) No less than 90% of all moneys appropriated monies
    expended    from   the   Illinois   Thoroughbred   Breeders   Fund
    shall be expended for the purposes in (1), (2), (2.5),
    (3), (4), (4.1), and (5) as shown above.
        (6) To provide for educational programs regarding the
    thoroughbred breeding industry.
        (7) To provide for research programs concerning the
    health, development and care of the thoroughbred horse.
        (8) To provide for a scholarship and training program
    for students of equine veterinary medicine.
        (9) To provide for dissemination of public information
    designed to promote the breeding of thoroughbred horses in
    Illinois.
        (10)    To   provide for   all expenses incurred in       the
    administration of the Illinois Thoroughbred Breeders Fund.
    (h) The Illinois Thoroughbred Breeders Fund is not subject
to administrative charges or chargebacks, including, but not
limited to, those authorized under Section 8h of the State
Finance Act.
    (i) A sum equal to 13% of the first prize money of every
purse won by an Illinois foaled or Illinois conceived and
foaled horse in races not limited to Illinois foaled horses or
Illinois conceived and foaled horses, or both, shall be paid
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


by     the    organization          licensee     conducting      the    horse        race
meeting. Such sum shall be paid 50% from the organization
licensee's share of the money wagered and 50% from the purse
account as follows: 11 1/2% to the breeder of the winning horse
and    1     1/2%      to    the   organization    representing        thoroughbred
breeders and owners whose who representative serves on the
Illinois       Thoroughbred          Breeders     Fund     Advisory         Board    for
verifying the amounts of breeders' awards earned, ensuring
their distribution in accordance with this Act, and servicing
and promoting the Illinois thoroughbred horse racing industry.
Beginning         in    the    calendar   year    in     which   an    organization
licensee that is eligible to receive payments under paragraph
(13) of subsection (g) of Section 26 of this Act begins to
receive funds from gaming pursuant to an organization gaming
license issued under the Illinois Gambling Act, a sum equal to
21 1/2% of the first prize money of every purse won by an
Illinois foaled or an Illinois conceived and foaled horse in
races not limited to an Illinois conceived and foaled horse,
or both, shall be paid 30% from the organization licensee's
account and 70% from the purse account as follows: 20% to the
breeder of the winning horse and 1 1/2% to the organization
representing            thoroughbred       breeders        and     owners           whose
representatives serve on the Illinois Thoroughbred Breeders
Fund Advisory Board for verifying the amounts of breeders'
awards earned, ensuring their distribution in accordance with
this       Act,        and    servicing    and     promoting          the     Illinois
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Thoroughbred racing industry. The organization representing
thoroughbred breeders and owners shall cause all expenditures
of moneys monies received under this subsection (i) to be
audited at least annually by a registered public accountant.
The organization shall file copies of each annual audit with
the Racing Board, the Clerk of the House of Representatives
and the Secretary of the Senate, and shall make copies of each
annual audit available to the public upon request and upon
payment of the reasonable cost of photocopying the requested
number of copies. Such payments shall not reduce any award to
the owner of the horse or reduce the taxes payable under this
Act. Upon completion of its racing meet, each organization
licensee   shall   deliver   to   the   organization   representing
thoroughbred breeders and owners whose representative serves
on the Illinois Thoroughbred Breeders Fund Advisory Board a
listing of all the Illinois foaled and the Illinois conceived
and foaled horses which won breeders' awards and the amount of
such breeders' awards under this subsection to verify accuracy
of payments and assure proper distribution of breeders' awards
in accordance with the provisions of this Act. Such payments
shall be delivered by the organization licensee within 30 days
of the end of each race meeting.
    (j) A sum equal to 13% of the first prize money won in
every race limited to Illinois foaled horses or Illinois
conceived and foaled horses, or both, shall be paid in the
following manner by the organization licensee conducting the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


horse race meeting, 50% from the organization licensee's share
of the money wagered and 50% from the purse account as follows:
11 1/2% to the breeders of the horses in each such race which
are the official first, second, third, and fourth finishers
and   1   1/2%    to   the   organization    representing        thoroughbred
breeders    and    owners     whose    representatives       serve    on   the
Illinois    Thoroughbred       Breeders      Fund     Advisory     Board   for
verifying the amounts of breeders' awards earned, ensuring
their proper distribution in accordance with this Act, and
servicing and promoting the Illinois horse racing industry.
Beginning    in    the   calendar     year   in     which   an   organization
licensee that is eligible to receive payments under paragraph
(13) of subsection (g) of Section 26 of this Act begins to
receive funds from gaming pursuant to an organization gaming
license issued under the Illinois Gambling Act, a sum of 21
1/2% of every purse in a race limited to Illinois foaled horses
or Illinois conceived and foaled horses, or both, shall be
paid by the organization licensee conducting the horse race
meeting. Such sum shall be paid 30% from the organization
licensee's account and 70% from the purse account as follows:
20% to the breeders of the horses in each such race who are
official first, second, third and fourth finishers and 1 1/2%
to the organization representing thoroughbred breeders and
owners     whose       representatives       serve     on    the     Illinois
Thoroughbred Breeders Fund Advisory Board for verifying the
amounts of breeders' awards earned, ensuring their proper
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


distribution in accordance with this Act, and servicing and
promoting the Illinois thoroughbred horse racing industry. The
organization representing thoroughbred breeders and owners
shall cause all expenditures of moneys received under this
subsection (j) to be audited at least annually by a registered
public accountant. The organization shall file copies of each
annual audit with the Racing Board, the Clerk of the House of
Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate, and shall
make copies of each annual audit available to the public upon
request    and   upon   payment   of   the   reasonable   cost   of
photocopying the requested number of copies. The copies of the
audit to the General Assembly shall be filed with the Clerk of
the House of Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate
in electronic form only, in the manner that the Clerk and the
Secretary shall direct.
    The amounts paid to the breeders in accordance with this
subsection shall be distributed as follows:
          (1) 60% of such sum shall be paid to the breeder of the
    horse which finishes in the official first position;
          (2) 20% of such sum shall be paid to the breeder of the
    horse which finishes in the official second position;
          (3) 15% of such sum shall be paid to the breeder of the
    horse which finishes in the official third position; and
          (4) 5% of such sum shall be paid to the breeder of the
    horse which finishes in the official fourth position.
    Such payments shall not reduce any award to the owners of a
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


horse   or   reduce    the    taxes    payable       under    this    Act.      Upon
completion of its racing meet, each organization licensee
shall deliver to the organization representing thoroughbred
breeders     and    owners    whose    representative         serves       on   the
Illinois Thoroughbred Breeders Fund Advisory Board a listing
of all the Illinois foaled and the Illinois conceived and
foaled horses which won breeders' awards and the amount of
such breeders' awards in accordance with the provisions of
this Act. Such payments shall be delivered by the organization
licensee within 30 days of the end of each race meeting.
     (k) The term "breeder", as used herein, means the owner of
the mare at the time the foal is dropped. An "Illinois foaled
horse" is a foal dropped by a mare which enters this State on
or before December 1, in the year in which the horse is bred,
provided the mare remains continuously in this State until its
foal is born. An "Illinois foaled horse" also means a foal born
of a mare in the same year as the mare enters this State on or
before March 1, and remains in this State at least 30 days
after foaling, is bred back during the season of the foaling to
an   Illinois      Registered       Stallion    (unless       a     veterinarian
certifies    that     the    mare    should    not    be     bred    for    health
reasons), and is not bred to a stallion standing in any other
state during the season of foaling. An "Illinois foaled horse"
also means a foal born in Illinois of a mare purchased at
public auction subsequent to the mare entering this State on
or before March 1 of the foaling year providing the mare is
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


owned solely by one or more Illinois residents or an Illinois
entity    that    is    entirely         owned      by     one    or   more     Illinois
residents.
    (l) The Department of Agriculture shall, by rule, with the
advice and assistance of the Illinois Thoroughbred Breeders
Fund Advisory Board:
          (1)    Qualify      stallions         for      Illinois      breeding;      such
    stallions      to    stand          for   service       within     the    State    of
    Illinois at the time of a foal's conception. Such stallion
    must not stand for service at any place outside the State
    of Illinois during the calendar year in which the foal is
    conceived. The Department of Agriculture may assess and
    collect      an     application           fee     of    up    to   $500     for   the
    registration         of    Illinois-eligible               stallions.     All     fees
    collected      are    to       be    held    in      trust    accounts      for   the
    purposes set forth in this Act and in accordance with
    Section 205-15 of the Department of Agriculture Law.
          (2) Provide for the registration of Illinois conceived
    and foaled horses and Illinois foaled horses. No such
    horse shall compete in the races limited to                                 Illinois
    conceived and foaled horses or Illinois foaled horses or
    both unless registered with the Department of Agriculture.
    The Department of Agriculture may prescribe such forms as
    are necessary to determine the eligibility of such horses.
    The   Department          of   Agriculture           may     assess   and    collect
    application fees for the registration of Illinois-eligible
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    foals. All fees collected are to be held in trust accounts
    for the purposes set forth in this Act and in accordance
    with Section 205-15 of the Department of Agriculture Law.
    No person shall knowingly prepare or cause preparation of
    an application for registration of such foals containing
    false information.
    (m) The Department of Agriculture, with the advice and
assistance of the Illinois Thoroughbred Breeders Fund Advisory
Board, shall provide that certain races limited to Illinois
conceived and foaled and Illinois foaled horses be stakes
races and determine the total amount of stakes and awards to be
paid to the owners of the winning horses in such races.
    In determining the stakes races and the amount of awards
for such races, the Department of Agriculture shall consider
factors, including, but not limited to, the amount of money
transferred   into   the   Illinois   Thoroughbred   Breeders   Fund,
organization licensees' contributions, availability of stakes
caliber horses as demonstrated by past performances, whether
the race can be coordinated into the proposed racing dates
within organization licensees' racing dates, opportunity for
colts and fillies and various age groups to race, public
wagering on such races, and the previous racing schedule.
    (n) The Board and the organization licensee shall notify
the Department of the conditions and minimum purses for races
limited to Illinois conceived and foaled and Illinois foaled
horses conducted for each organization licensee conducting a
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


thoroughbred racing meeting. The Department of Agriculture
with the advice and assistance of the Illinois Thoroughbred
Breeders Fund Advisory Board may allocate moneys monies for
purse supplements for such races. In determining whether to
allocate money and the amount, the Department of Agriculture
shall consider factors, including, but not limited to, the
amount of money transferred into the Illinois Thoroughbred
Breeders Fund, the number of races that may occur, and the
organization licensee's purse structure.
    (o) (Blank).
(Source: P.A. 103-8, eff. 6-7-23; 103-605, eff. 7-1-24.)


    (230 ILCS 5/31) (from Ch. 8, par. 37-31)
    Sec. 31. (a) The General Assembly declares that it is the
policy of this State to encourage the breeding of standardbred
horses in this State and the ownership of such horses by
residents of this State in order to provide for: sufficient
numbers of high quality standardbred horses to participate in
harness racing meetings in this State, and to establish and
preserve the agricultural and commercial benefits of such
breeding and racing industries to the State of Illinois. It is
the intent of the General Assembly to further this policy by
the provisions of this Section of this Act.
    (b) Each organization licensee conducting a harness racing
meeting pursuant to this Act shall provide for at least two
races each race program limited to Illinois conceived and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


foaled horses. A minimum of 6 races shall be conducted each
week limited to Illinois conceived and foaled horses. No
horses shall be permitted to start in such races unless duly
registered under the rules of the Department of Agriculture.
    (b-5) Organization licensees, not including the Illinois
State Fair or the DuQuoin State Fair, shall provide stake
races and early closer races for Illinois conceived and foaled
horses so that purses distributed for such races shall be no
less than 17% of total purses distributed for harness racing
in that calendar year in addition to any stakes payments and
starting fees contributed by horse owners.
    (b-10) Each organization licensee conducting a harness
racing meeting pursuant to this Act shall provide an owner
award to be paid from the purse account equal to 12% of the
amount   earned   by   Illinois   conceived   and   foaled   horses
finishing in the first 3 positions in races that are not
restricted to Illinois conceived and foaled horses. The owner
awards shall not be paid on races below the $10,000 claiming
class.
    (c) Conditions of races under subsection (b) shall be
commensurate with past performance, quality, and class of
Illinois conceived and foaled horses available. If, however,
sufficient competition cannot be had among horses of that
class on any day, the races may, with consent of the Board, be
eliminated for that day and substitute races provided.
    (d) There is hereby created a special fund of the State
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


treasury to be known as the Illinois Standardbred Breeders
Fund. Beginning on June 28, 2019 (the effective date of Public
Act 101-31), the Illinois Standardbred Breeders Fund shall
become a non-appropriated trust fund held separate and apart
from State moneys. Expenditures from this Fund shall no longer
be subject to appropriation.
      During the calendar year 1981, and each year thereafter,
except as provided in subsection (g) of Section 27 of this Act,
eight and one-half per cent of all the moneys monies received
by the State as privilege taxes on harness racing meetings
shall be paid into the Illinois Standardbred Breeders Fund.
      (e) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
amounts deposited into the Illinois Standardbred Breeders Fund
from revenues generated by gaming pursuant to an organization
gaming license issued under the Illinois Gambling Act after
June 28, 2019 (the effective date of Public Act 101-31) shall
be in addition to tax and fee amounts paid under this Section
for    calendar     year     2019    and   thereafter.   The     Illinois
Standardbred      Breeders    Fund   shall   be   administered    by   the
Department of Agriculture with the assistance and advice of
the Advisory Board created in subsection (f) of this Section.
      (f) The Illinois Standardbred Breeders Fund Advisory Board
is hereby created. The Advisory Board shall consist of the
Director of the Department of Agriculture, who shall serve as
Chairman; the Superintendent of the Illinois State Fair; a
member of the Illinois Racing Board, designated by it; a
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


representative       of     the        largest      association        of        Illinois
standardbred     owners         and     breeders,       recommended         by    it;    a
representative       of     a     statewide         association         representing
agricultural     fairs      in        Illinois,     recommended        by    it,       such
representative to be from a fair at which Illinois conceived
and   foaled   racing       is    conducted;        a   representative            of    the
organization licensees conducting harness racing meetings,
recommended    by    them;        a     representative         of     the    Breeder's
Committee of the association representing the largest number
of standardbred owners, breeders, trainers, caretakers, and
drivers,    recommended          by    it;   and    a   representative            of    the
association representing the largest number of standardbred
owners,     breeders,        trainers,           caretakers,          and        drivers,
recommended by it. Advisory Board members shall serve for 2
years commencing January 1 of each odd numbered year. If
representatives      of      the       largest      association        of        Illinois
standardbred owners and breeders, a statewide association of
agricultural fairs in Illinois, the association representing
the largest number of standardbred owners, breeders, trainers,
caretakers, and drivers, a member of the Breeder's Committee
of    the   association          representing        the     largest        number       of
standardbred     owners,         breeders,         trainers,        caretakers,         and
drivers, and the organization licensees conducting harness
racing meetings have not been recommended by January 1 of each
odd   numbered      year,        the    Director        of   the     Department          of
Agriculture shall make an appointment for the organization
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


failing   to   so   recommend    a    member    of    the     Advisory   Board.
Advisory Board members shall receive no compensation for their
services as members but shall be reimbursed for all actual and
necessary expenses and disbursements incurred in the execution
of their official duties.
    (g) Moneys appropriated Monies expended from the Illinois
Standardbred Breeders Fund shall be expended by the Department
of Agriculture, with the assistance and advice of the Illinois
Standardbred Breeders Fund Advisory Board for the following
purposes only:
          1. To provide purses for races limited to Illinois
    conceived and foaled horses at the State Fair and the
    DuQuoin State Fair.
          2. To provide purses for races limited to Illinois
    conceived and foaled horses at county fairs.
          3. To provide purse supplements for races limited to
    Illinois     conceived      and    foaled        horses     conducted   by
    associations conducting harness racing meetings.
          4. No less than 75% of all moneys monies in the
    Illinois Standardbred Breeders Fund shall be expended for
    purses in 1, 2, and 3 as shown above.
          5. In the discretion of the Department of Agriculture
    to    provide    awards     to    harness    breeders        of   Illinois
    conceived and foaled horses which win races conducted by
    organization licensees conducting harness racing meetings.
    A breeder is the owner of a mare at the time of conception.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    No   more    than   10%   of    all   moneys    transferred       into    the
    Illinois Standardbred Breeders Fund shall be expended for
    such harness breeders awards. No more than 25% of the
    amount      expended   for     harness   breeders       awards    shall    be
    expended for expenses incurred in the administration of
    such harness breeders awards.
         6. To pay for the improvement of racing facilities
    located at the State Fair and County fairs.
         7. To pay the expenses incurred in the administration
    of the Illinois Standardbred Breeders Fund.
         8. To promote the sport of harness racing, including
    grants up to a maximum of $7,500 per fair per year for
    conducting      pari-mutuel      wagering      during    the     advertised
    dates of a county fair.
         9. To pay up to $50,000 annually for the Department of
    Agriculture to conduct drug testing at county fairs racing
    standardbred horses.
    (h) The Illinois Standardbred Breeders Fund is not subject
to administrative charges or chargebacks, including, but not
limited to, those authorized under Section 8h of the State
Finance Act.
    (i) A sum equal to 13% of the first prize money of the
gross purse won by an Illinois conceived and foaled horse
shall be paid 50% by the organization licensee conducting the
horse race meeting to the breeder of such winning horse from
the organization licensee's account and 50% from the purse
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


account of the licensee. Such payment shall not reduce any
award to the owner of the horse or reduce the taxes payable
under   this   Act.   Such      payment   shall       be   delivered   by   the
organization licensee at the end of each quarter.
    (j) The Department of Agriculture shall, by rule, with the
assistance and advice of the Illinois Standardbred Breeders
Fund Advisory Board:
         1.    Qualify     stallions      for     Illinois      Standardbred
    Breeders Fund breeding. Such stallion shall stand for
    service at and within the State of Illinois at the time of
    a foal's conception, and such stallion must not stand for
    service at any place outside the State of Illinois during
    that   calendar      year    in   which     the    foal   is   conceived.
    However, on and after January 1, 2018, semen from an
    Illinois stallion may be transported outside the State of
    Illinois.
         2. Provide for the registration of Illinois conceived
    and foaled horses and no such horse shall compete in the
    races limited to Illinois conceived and foaled horses
    unless registered with the Department of Agriculture. The
    Department of Agriculture may prescribe such forms as may
    be necessary to determine the eligibility of such horses.
    No person shall knowingly prepare or cause preparation of
    an application for registration of such foals containing
    false information. A mare (dam) must be in the State at
    least 30 days prior to foaling or remain in the State at
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    least   30    days     at   the   time    of    foaling.     However,      the
    requirement that a mare (dam) must be in the State at least
    30 days before foaling or remain in the State at least 30
    days at the time of foaling shall not be in effect from
    January 1, 2018 until January 1, 2022. Beginning with the
    1996 breeding season and for foals of 1997 and thereafter,
    a foal conceived by transported semen may be eligible for
    Illinois conceived and foaled registration provided all
    breeding and foaling requirements are met. The stallion
    must be qualified for Illinois Standardbred Breeders Fund
    breeding at the time of conception. The foal must be
    dropped   in    Illinois      and   properly      registered     with      the
    Department of Agriculture in accordance with this Act.
    However, from January 1, 2018 until January 1, 2022, the
    requirement for a mare to be inseminated within the State
    of Illinois and the requirement for a foal to be dropped in
    Illinois are inapplicable.
         3. Provide that at least a 5-day racing program shall
    be   conducted    at    the   State      Fair    each   year,   unless      an
    alternate racing program is requested by the Illinois
    Standardbred Breeders Fund Advisory Board, which program
    shall include at least the following races limited to
    Illinois conceived and foaled horses: (a) a 2-year-old
    Trot    and    Pace,    and   Filly      Division       of   each;   (b)    a
    3-year-old Trot and Pace, and Filly Division of each; (c)
    an aged Trot and Pace, and Mare Division of each.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        4. Provide for the payment of nominating, sustaining,
    and starting fees for races promoting the sport of harness
    racing and for the races to be conducted at the State Fair
    as provided in paragraph 3 of this subsection provided
    that   the   nominating,   sustaining,   and   starting   payment
    required from an entrant shall not exceed 2% of the purse
    of such race. All nominating, sustaining, and starting
    payments shall be held for the benefit of entrants and
    shall be paid out as part of the respective purses for such
    races. Nominating, sustaining, and starting fees shall be
    held in trust accounts for the purposes as set forth in
    this Act and in accordance with Section 205-15 of the
    Department of Agriculture Law.
        5. Provide for the registration with the Department of
    Agriculture of Colt Associations or county fairs desiring
    to sponsor races at county fairs.
        6. Provide for the promotion of producing standardbred
    racehorses by providing a bonus award program for owners
    of 2-year-old horses that win multiple major stakes races
    that are limited to Illinois conceived and foaled horses.
    (k) The Department of Agriculture, with the advice and
assistance of the Illinois Standardbred Breeders Fund Advisory
Board, may allocate moneys monies for purse supplements for
such races. In determining whether to allocate money and the
amount, the Department of Agriculture shall consider factors,
including, but not limited to, the amount of money transferred
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


into the Illinois Standardbred Breeders Fund, the number of
races that may occur, and an organization licensee's purse
structure.    The     organization   licensee   shall    notify   the
Department of Agriculture of the conditions and minimum purses
for races limited to Illinois conceived and foaled horses to
be   conducted   by   each   organization   licensee    conducting   a
harness racing meeting for which purse supplements have been
negotiated.
     (l) All races held at county fairs and the State Fair which
receive funds from the Illinois Standardbred Breeders Fund
shall be conducted in accordance with the rules of the United
States Trotting Association unless otherwise modified by the
Department of Agriculture.
     (m) At all standardbred race meetings held or conducted
under authority of a license granted by the Board, and at all
standardbred races held at county fairs which are approved by
the Department of Agriculture or at the Illinois or DuQuoin
State Fairs, no one shall jog, train, warm up, or drive a
standardbred horse unless he or she is wearing a protective
safety helmet, with the chin strap fastened and in place,
which meets the standards and requirements as set forth in the
1984 Standard for Protective Headgear for Use in Harness
Racing and Other Equestrian Sports published by the Snell
Memorial Foundation, or any standards and requirements for
headgear the Illinois Racing Board may approve. Any other
standards and requirements so approved by the Board shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


equal    or   exceed   those   published      by   the    Snell   Memorial
Foundation. Any equestrian helmet bearing the Snell label
shall be deemed to have met those standards and requirements.
    (n) In addition to any other transfer that may be provided
for by law, as soon as practical after the effective date of
the changes made to this Section by this amendatory Act of the
103rd General Assembly, but no later than July 3, 2024 the
State Comptroller shall direct and the State Treasurer shall
transfer the sum of $2,000,000 from the Fair and Exposition
Fund to the Illinois Standardbred Breeders Fund.
(Source: P.A. 102-558, eff. 8-20-21; 102-689, eff. 12-17-21;
103-8,   eff.    6-7-23;   103-588,    eff.    6-5-24;     103-605,   eff.
7-1-24.)


    Section 5-97. The Video Gaming Act is amended by changing
Section 60 as follows:


    (230 ILCS 40/60)
    Sec. 60. Imposition and distribution of tax.
    (a) Through June 30, 2025, a tax of 30% is imposed on net
terminal income and shall be collected by the Board.
    Of     the   tax   collected      under    this      subsection   (a),
five-sixths shall be deposited into the Capital Projects Fund
and one-sixth shall be deposited into the Local Government
Video Gaming Distributive Fund.
    (b) Beginning on July 1, 2019 and through June 30, 2025, an
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


additional tax of 3% is imposed on net terminal income and
shall be collected by the Board.
    Beginning on July 1, 2020 and through June 30, 2025, an
additional tax of 1% is imposed on net terminal income and
shall be collected by the Board.
    Beginning on July 1, 2024 and through June 30, 2025, an
additional tax of 1% is imposed on net terminal income and
shall be collected by the Board.
    The tax collected under this         subsection (b) shall be
deposited into the Capital Projects Fund.
    (b-5) Beginning on July 1, 2025, a tax of 35% is imposed on
net terminal income and shall be collected by the Board.
    Through June 30, 2026, of Of the tax collected under this
subsection (b-5), 83.7% shall be deposited into the Capital
Projects   Fund,   14.3%   shall   be   deposited   into   the   Local
Government Video Gaming Distributive Fund, and 2% shall be
deposited into the State Gaming Fund.
    Beginning on July 1, 2026, of the tax collected under this
subsection (b-5), 72.7% shall be deposited into the Capital
Projects   Fund,   14.3%   shall   be   deposited   into   the   Local
Government Video Gaming Distributive Fund, 10.0% shall be
deposited into the State Facility Maintenance and Improvement
Fund, and 3.0% shall be deposited into the State Gaming Fund.
    (c) Revenues generated from the play            of video gaming
terminals shall be deposited by the terminal operator, who is
responsible for tax payments, in a specially created, separate
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


bank account maintained by the video gaming terminal operator
to allow for electronic fund transfers of moneys for tax
payment.
    (d)    Each     licensed    establishment,     licensed        truck    stop
establishment,       licensed     large    truck     stop    establishment,
licensed     fraternal      establishment,     and     licensed         veterans
establishment shall maintain an adequate video gaming fund,
with the amount to be determined by the Board.
    (e) The State's percentage of net terminal income shall be
reported and remitted to the Board within 15 days after the
15th day of each month and within 15 days after the end of each
month   by    the   video    terminal     operator.    A    video       terminal
operator who falsely reports or fails to report the amount due
required by this Section is guilty of a Class 4 felony and is
subject to termination of his or her license by the Board. Each
video terminal operator shall keep a record of net terminal
income in such form as the Board may require. All payments not
remitted     when   due   shall   be   paid   together      with    a    penalty
assessment on the unpaid balance at a rate of 1.5% per month.
(Source: P.A. 103-592, eff. 6-7-24; 104-2, eff. 6-16-25.)


    Section 5-100. The Environmental Protection Act is amended
by changing Sections 22.15 and 57.11 as follows:


    (415 ILCS 5/22.15)
    Sec. 22.15. Solid Waste Management Fund; fees.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (a) There is hereby created within the State treasury
Treasury   a   special   fund   to    be   known   as    the   Solid    Waste
Management Fund, to be constituted from the fees collected by
the State pursuant to this Section, from repayments of loans
made from the Fund for solid waste projects, from registration
fees collected pursuant to the Consumer Electronics Recycling
Act, from fees collected under the Paint Stewardship Act, and
from amounts transferred into the Fund pursuant to Public Act
100-433.   Moneys   received     by    either      the    Agency   or    the
Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity in repayment
of loans made pursuant to the Illinois Solid Waste Management
Act shall be deposited into the General Revenue Fund.
    (b) The Agency shall assess and collect a fee in the amount
set forth herein from the owner or operator of each sanitary
landfill permitted or required to be permitted by the Agency
to dispose of solid waste if the sanitary landfill is located
off the site where such waste was produced and if such sanitary
landfill is owned, controlled, and operated by a person other
than the generator of such waste. The Agency shall deposit all
fees collected into the Solid Waste Management Fund. If a site
is contiguous to one or more landfills owned or operated by the
same person, the volumes permanently disposed of by each
landfill shall be combined for purposes of determining the fee
under this subsection. Beginning on July 1, 2018, and on the
first day of each month thereafter during fiscal years 2019
through 2027 2026, the State Comptroller shall direct and the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


State Treasurer shall transfer an amount equal to 1/12 of
$5,000,000 per fiscal year from the Solid Waste Management
Fund to the General Revenue Fund.
        (1) If more than 150,000 cubic yards of non-hazardous
    solid waste is permanently disposed of at a site in a
    calendar year, the owner or operator shall either pay a
    fee of 95 cents per cubic yard or, alternatively, the
    owner or operator may weigh the quantity of the solid
    waste permanently disposed of with a device for which
    certification has been obtained under the Weights and
    Measures Act and pay a fee of $2.00 per ton of solid waste
    permanently   disposed    of.    In   no   case    shall    the    fee
    collected or paid by the owner or operator under this
    paragraph exceed $1.55 per cubic yard or $3.27 per ton.
        (2) If more than 100,000 cubic yards but not more than
    150,000 cubic yards of non-hazardous waste is permanently
    disposed of at a site in a calendar year, the owner or
    operator shall pay a fee of $52,630.
        (3) If more than 50,000 cubic yards but not more than
    100,000   cubic   yards   of    non-hazardous     solid    waste    is
    permanently disposed of at a site in a calendar year, the
    owner or operator shall pay a fee of $23,790.
        (4) If more than 10,000 cubic yards but not more than
    50,000    cubic   yards   of    non-hazardous     solid    waste    is
    permanently disposed of at a site in a calendar year, the
    owner or operator shall pay a fee of $7,260.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        (5)   If      not   more   than    10,000     cubic    yards    of
    non-hazardous solid waste is permanently disposed of at a
    site in a calendar year, the owner or operator shall pay a
    fee of $1,050 $1050.
    (c) (Blank).
    (d) The Agency shall establish rules relating to the
collection of the fees authorized by this Section. Such rules
shall include, but not be limited to:
        (1) necessary records identifying the quantities of
    solid waste received or disposed;
        (2) the form and submission of reports to accompany
    the payment of fees to the Agency;
        (3) the time and manner of payment of fees to the
    Agency,   which    payments    shall   not   be   more    often    than
    quarterly; and
        (4) procedures setting        forth criteria establishing
    when an owner or operator may measure by weight or volume
    during any given quarter or other fee payment period.
    (e) Pursuant to appropriation, all moneys monies in the
Solid Waste Management Fund shall be used by the Agency for the
purposes set forth in this Section and in the Illinois Solid
Waste   Management     Act,   including    for   the    costs    of    fee
collection and administration, for administration of the Paint
Stewardship Act, and for the administration of the Consumer
Electronics Recycling Act, the Drug Take-Back Act, and the
Statewide Recycling Needs Assessment Act.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (f) The Agency is authorized to enter into such agreements
and to promulgate such rules as are necessary to carry out its
duties    under        this    Section       and    the    Illinois    Solid   Waste
Management Act.
    (g) On the first day of January, April, July, and October
of each year, beginning on July 1, 2025, the State Comptroller
and Treasurer shall transfer $750,000 from the Solid Waste
Management           Fund     to     the     Hazardous      Waste     Fund.    Moneys
transferred under this subsection (g) shall be used only for
the purposes set forth in item (1) of subsection (d) of Section
22.2.
    (h)        The    Agency        is     authorized      to   provide   financial
assistance to units of local government for the performance of
inspecting, investigating, and enforcement activities pursuant
to subsection (r) of Section 4 at nonhazardous solid waste
disposal sites.
    (i) The Agency is authorized to conduct household waste
collection and disposal programs.
    (j) A unit of local government, as defined in the Local
Solid Waste Disposal Act, in which a solid waste disposal
facility is located may establish a fee, tax, or surcharge
with regard to the permanent disposal of solid waste. All
fees, taxes, and surcharges collected under this subsection
shall     be    utilized           for   solid     waste    management    purposes,
including long-term monitoring and maintenance of landfills,
planning, implementation, inspection, enforcement and other
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


activities consistent with the Illinois Solid Waste Management
Act and the Local Solid Waste Disposal Act, or for any other
environment-related purpose, including, but not limited to, an
environment-related public works project, but not for the
construction of a new pollution control facility other than a
household hazardous waste facility. However, the total fee,
tax or surcharge imposed by all units of local government
under   this   subsection   (j)   upon   the    solid   waste   disposal
facility shall not exceed:
         (1) 60¢ per cubic yard if more than 150,000 cubic
    yards of non-hazardous solid waste is permanently disposed
    of at the site in a calendar year, unless the owner or
    operator weighs the quantity of the solid waste received
    with a device for which certification has been obtained
    under the Weights and Measures Act, in which case the fee
    shall not exceed $1.27 per ton of solid waste permanently
    disposed of.
         (2) $33,350 if more than 100,000 cubic yards, but not
    more than 150,000 cubic yards, of non-hazardous waste is
    permanently disposed of at the site in a calendar year.
         (3) $15,500 if more than 50,000 cubic yards, but not
    more than 100,000 cubic yards, of non-hazardous solid
    waste is permanently disposed of at the site in a calendar
    year.
         (4) $4,650 if more than 10,000 cubic yards, but not
    more than 50,000 cubic yards, of non-hazardous solid waste
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


     is permanently disposed of at the site in a calendar year.
          (5)   $650    if   not   more     than       10,000    cubic     yards   of
     non-hazardous solid waste is permanently disposed of at
     the site in a calendar year.
     The corporate authorities of the unit of local government
may use proceeds from the fee, tax, or surcharge to reimburse a
highway   commissioner         whose   road      district        lies     wholly   or
partially within the corporate limits of the unit of local
government      for     expenses       incurred         in   the        removal    of
nonhazardous, nonfluid municipal waste that has been dumped on
public    property     in      violation    of     a     State     law    or   local
ordinance.
     For the disposal of solid waste from general construction
or   demolition       debris     recovery     facilities         as      defined   in
subsection (a-1) of Section 3.160, the total fee, tax, or
surcharge imposed by all units of local government under this
subsection (j) upon the solid waste disposal facility shall
not exceed 50% of the applicable amount set forth above. A unit
of local government, as defined in the Local Solid Waste
Disposal Act, in which a general construction or demolition
debris recovery facility is located may establish a fee, tax,
or surcharge on the general construction or demolition debris
recovery facility with regard to the permanent disposal of
solid waste by the general construction or demolition debris
recovery facility at a solid waste disposal facility, provided
that such fee, tax, or surcharge shall not exceed 50% of the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


applicable amount set forth above, based on the total amount
of solid waste transported from the general construction or
demolition debris recovery facility for disposal at solid
waste disposal facilities, and the unit of local government
and fee shall be subject to all other requirements of this
subsection (j).
    A county or Municipal Joint Action Agency that imposes a
fee, tax, or surcharge under this subsection may use the
proceeds thereof to reimburse a municipality that lies wholly
or partially within its boundaries for expenses incurred in
the removal of nonhazardous, nonfluid municipal waste that has
been dumped on public property in violation of a State law or
local ordinance.
    If the fees are to be used to conduct a local sanitary
landfill inspection or enforcement program, the unit of local
government must enter into a written delegation agreement with
the Agency pursuant to subsection (r) of Section 4. The unit of
local   government   and   the   Agency   shall    enter   into   such   a
written   delegation   agreement     within       60   days   after   the
establishment of such fees. At least annually, the Agency
shall conduct an audit of the expenditures made by units of
local government from the funds granted by the Agency to the
units of local government for purposes of local sanitary
landfill inspection and enforcement programs, to ensure that
the funds have been expended for the prescribed purposes under
the grant.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    The    fees,     taxes      or    surcharges     collected     under    this
subsection (j) shall be placed by the unit of local government
in a separate fund, and the interest received on the moneys in
the fund shall be credited to the fund. The moneys monies in
the fund may be accumulated over a period of years to be
expended in accordance with this subsection.
    A unit of local government, as defined in the Local Solid
Waste Disposal Act, shall prepare and post on its website, in
April of each year, a report that details spending plans for
moneys monies collected in accordance with this subsection.
The report will at a minimum include the following:
          (1) The total moneys monies collected pursuant to this
    subsection.
          (2)   The      most    current        balance   of    moneys     monies
    collected pursuant to this subsection.
          (3)   An    itemized        accounting    of    all   moneys     monies
    expended       for    the        previous     year    pursuant   to     this
    subsection.
          (4) An estimation of moneys monies to be collected for
    the following 3 years pursuant to this subsection.
          (5) A narrative detailing the general direction and
    scope of future expenditures for one, 2 and 3 years.
    The exemptions granted under Sections 22.16 and 22.16a,
and under subsection (k) of this Section, shall be applicable
to any fee, tax or surcharge imposed under this subsection
(j); except that the fee, tax or surcharge authorized to be
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


imposed under this subsection (j) may be made applicable by a
unit of local government to the permanent disposal of solid
waste after December 31, 1986, under any contract lawfully
executed before June 1, 1986 under which more than 150,000
cubic   yards   (or     50,000   tons)   of   solid   waste   is   to   be
permanently disposed of, even though the waste is exempt from
the fee imposed by the State under subsection (b) of this
Section pursuant to an exemption granted under Section 22.16.
    (k) In accordance with the findings and purposes of the
Illinois Solid Waste Management Act, beginning January 1, 1989
the fee under subsection (b) and the fee, tax or surcharge
under subsection (j) shall not apply to:
        (1) waste which is hazardous waste;
        (2) waste which is pollution control waste;
        (3)     waste    from    recycling,    reclamation    or   reuse
    processes which have been approved by the Agency as being
    designed to remove any contaminant from wastes so as to
    render such wastes reusable, provided that the process
    renders at least 50% of the waste reusable; the exemption
    set forth in this paragraph (3) of this subsection (k)
    shall not apply to general construction or demolition
    debris recovery facilities as defined in subsection (a-1)
    of Section 3.160;
        (4) non-hazardous solid waste that is received at a
    sanitary landfill and composted or recycled through a
    process permitted by the Agency; or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


            (5) any landfill which is permitted by the Agency to
      receive      only     demolition      or     construction      debris   or
      landscape waste.
(Source:     P.A.    103-8,      eff.    6-7-23;    103-154,    eff.    6-30-23;
103-372, eff. 1-1-24; 103-383, eff. 7-28-23; 103-588, eff.
6-5-24; 103-605, eff. 7-1-24; 104-2, eff. 6-16-25.)


      (415 ILCS 5/57.11)
      Sec. 57.11. Underground Storage Tank Fund; creation.
      (a) There is hereby created in the State treasury Treasury
a special fund to be known as the Underground Storage Tank
Fund. There shall be deposited into the Underground Storage
Tank Fund all moneys received by the Office of the State Fire
Marshal as fees for underground storage tanks under Sections 4
and 5 of the Gasoline Storage Act, fees pursuant to the Motor
Fuel Tax Law, and beginning July 1, 2013, payments pursuant to
the   Use    Tax    Act,    the    Service   Use     Tax   Act,   the   Service
Occupation Tax Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act. All
amounts held in the Underground Storage Tank Fund shall be
invested at interest by the State Treasurer. All income earned
from the investments shall be deposited into the Underground
Storage     Tank    Fund    no    less   frequently     than    quarterly.    In
addition to any other transfers that may be provided for by
law, beginning on July 1, 2018 and on the first day of each
month thereafter during fiscal years 2019 through 2027 2026
only,    the    State      Comptroller     shall     direct    and   the   State
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Treasurer      shall     transfer       an    amount    equal     to   1/12    of
$10,000,000 from the Underground Storage Tank Fund to the
General Revenue Fund. Moneys in the Underground Storage Tank
Fund, pursuant to appropriation, may be used by the Agency and
the   Office     of    the   State     Fire   Marshal    for    the    following
purposes:
          (1) To take action authorized under Section 57.12 to
      recover costs under Section 57.12.
          (2) To       assist in       the reduction     and     mitigation of
      damage caused by leaks from underground storage tanks,
      including, but not limited to, providing alternative water
      supplies    to    persons      whose    drinking    water    has   become
      contaminated as a result of those leaks.
          (3) To be used as a matching amount toward federal
      assistance      relative    to    the   release    of     petroleum     from
      underground storage tanks.
          (4) For the costs of administering activities of the
      Agency and the Office of the State Fire Marshal relative
      to the Underground Storage Tank Fund.
          (5) For payment of costs of corrective action incurred
      by and indemnification to operators of underground storage
      tanks as provided in this Title.
          (6) For a total of 2 demonstration projects in amounts
      in excess of a $10,000 deductible charge designed to
      assess the viability of corrective action projects at
      sites which have experienced contamination from petroleum
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      releases. Such demonstration projects shall be conducted
      in accordance with the provision of this Title.
          (7)      Subject        to       appropriation,    moneys    in     the
      Underground Storage Tank Fund may also be used by the
      Department of Revenue for the costs of administering its
      activities relative to the Fund and for refunds provided
      for in Section 13a.8 of the Motor Fuel Tax Law.
      (b) Moneys in the Underground Storage Tank Fund                         may,
pursuant to appropriation, be used by the Office of the State
Fire Marshal or the Agency to take whatever emergency action
is necessary or appropriate to assure that the public health
or safety is not threatened whenever there is a release or
substantial     threat       of        a   release   of   petroleum    from     an
underground storage tank and for the costs of administering
its activities relative to the Underground Storage Tank Fund.
      (c) Beginning July 1, 1993, the Governor shall certify to
the State Comptroller and State Treasurer the monthly amount
necessary to pay debt service on State obligations issued
pursuant to Section 6 of the General Obligation Bond Act. On
the   last   day    of   each      month,      the   Comptroller   shall     order
transferred     and      the      Treasurer      shall    transfer    from    the
Underground Storage Tank Fund to the General Obligation Bond
Retirement and Interest Fund the amount certified by the
Governor, plus any cumulative deficiency in those transfers
for prior months.
      (d) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this Section,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the    Underground     Storage   Tank    Fund     is     not    subject    to
administrative charges authorized under Section 8h of the
State Finance Act that would in any way transfer any funds from
the Underground Storage Tank Fund into any other fund of the
State.
      (e) Each fiscal year, subject to appropriation, the Agency
may commit up to $10,000,000 of the moneys in the Underground
Storage Tank Fund to the payment of corrective action costs
for legacy sites that meet one or more of the following
criteria as a result of the underground storage tank release:
(i) the presence of free product, (ii) contamination within a
regulated recharge area, a wellhead protection area, or the
setback    zone   of    a   potable     water     supply       well,   (iii)
contamination extending beyond the boundaries of the site
where the release occurred, or (iv) such other criteria as may
be adopted in Agency rules.
          (1) Fund moneys committed under this subsection (e)
      shall be held in the Fund for payment of the corrective
      action costs for which the moneys were committed.
          (2)   The    Agency    may    adopt    rules     governing      the
      commitment of Fund moneys under this subsection (e).
          (3) This subsection (e) does not limit the use of Fund
      moneys at legacy sites as otherwise provided under this
      Title.
          (4) For the purposes of this subsection (e), the term
      "legacy site" means a site for which (i) an underground
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      storage tank release was reported prior to January 1,
      2005, (ii) the owner or          operator has been determined
      eligible to receive payment from the Fund for corrective
      action costs, and (iii) the Agency did not receive any
      applications for payment prior to January 1, 2010.
      (f) Beginning July 1, 2013, if the amounts deposited into
the Fund from moneys received by the Office of the State Fire
Marshal as fees for underground storage tanks under Sections 4
and 5 of the Gasoline Storage Act and as fees pursuant to the
Motor Fuel Tax Law during a State fiscal year are sufficient to
pay all claims for payment by the fund received during that
State fiscal year, then the amount of any payments into the
fund pursuant to the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, and the Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act   during   that   State   fiscal    year   shall   be   deposited   as
follows: 75% thereof shall be paid into the State treasury and
25% shall be reserved in a special account and used only for
the transfer to the Common School Fund as part of the monthly
transfer from the General Revenue Fund in accordance with
Section 8a of the State Finance Act.
(Source: P.A. 103-8, eff. 6-7-23; 103-588, eff. 6-5-24; 104-2,
eff. 6-16-25.)


      Section 5-105. The Illinois Vehicle Code is amended by
changing Sections 3-699.14 and 3-699.15 as follows:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      (625 ILCS 5/3-699.14)
      Sec. 3-699.14. Universal special license plates.
      (a) In addition to any other special license plate, the
Secretary,      upon      receipt       of     all    applicable        fees    and
applications made in the form prescribed by the Secretary, may
issue    Universal     special         license     plates    to   residents      of
Illinois on behalf of organizations that have been authorized
by the General Assembly to issue decals for Universal special
license plates. Appropriate documentation, as determined by
the Secretary, shall accompany each application. Authorized
organizations       shall    be    designated        by     amendment    to    this
Section. When applying for a Universal special license plate
the applicant shall inform the Secretary of the name of the
authorized organization from which the applicant will obtain a
decal to place on the plate. The Secretary shall make a record
of    that   organization        and    that     organization      shall      remain
affiliated with that plate until the plate is surrendered,
revoked, or otherwise canceled. The authorized organization
may    charge   a   fee     to    offset     the     cost    of   producing     and
distributing the decal, but that fee shall be retained by the
authorized organization and shall be separate and distinct
from any registration fees charged by the Secretary. No decal,
sticker, or other material may be affixed to a Universal
special license plate other than a decal authorized by the
General Assembly in this Section or a registration renewal
sticker. The special plates issued under this Section shall be
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


affixed only to passenger vehicles of the first division,
including motorcycles and autocycles, or motor vehicles of the
second division weighing not more than 8,000 pounds. Plates
issued   under        this    Section    shall      expire      according       to   the
multi-year procedure under Section 3-414.1 of this Code.
      (b) The design, color, and format of the Universal special
license plate shall be wholly within the discretion of the
Secretary. Universal special license plates are not required
to designate "Land of Lincoln", as prescribed in subsection
(b) of Section 3-412 of this Code. The design shall allow for
the    application       of    a   decal   to       the   plate.       Organizations
authorized       by    the    General    Assembly         to   issue     decals      for
Universal    special         license    plates      shall      comply     with   rules
adopted by the Secretary governing the requirements for and
approval    of    Universal        special      license        plate    decals.      The
Secretary may, in his or her discretion, allow Universal
special license plates to be issued as vanity or personalized
plates in accordance with Section 3-405.1 of this Code. The
Secretary    of       State    must     make    a    version     of     the    special
registration plates authorized under this Section in a form
appropriate for motorcycles and autocycles.
      (c) When authorizing a Universal special license plate,
the General Assembly shall set forth whether an additional fee
is to be charged for the plate and, if a fee is to be charged,
the amount of the fee and how the fee is to be distributed.
When   necessary,        the    authorizing         language      shall       create   a
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


special fund in the State treasury into which fees may be
deposited for an authorized Universal special license plate.
Additional fees may only be charged if the fee is to be paid
over to a State agency or to a charitable entity that is in
compliance with the registration and reporting requirements of
the Charitable Trust Act and the Solicitation for Charity Act.
Any charitable entity receiving fees for the sale of Universal
special license plates shall annually provide the Secretary of
State a letter of compliance issued by the Attorney General
verifying that the entity is in compliance with the Charitable
Trust Act and the Solicitation for Charity Act.
      (d)   Upon    original   issuance     and    for    each    registration
renewal period, in addition to the appropriate registration
fee, if applicable, the Secretary shall collect any additional
fees, if required, for issuance of Universal special license
plates.     The    fees   shall   be   collected         on   behalf   of   the
organization designated by the applicant when applying for the
plate. All fees collected shall be transferred to the State
agency on whose behalf the fees were collected, or paid into
the   special      fund   designated   in    the    law       authorizing   the
organization to issue decals for Universal special license
plates. All money in the designated fund shall be distributed
by the Secretary subject to appropriation by the General
Assembly.
      (e)   The    following   organizations       may    issue    decals   for
Universal special license plates with the original and renewal
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


fees and fee distribution as follows:
        (1) The Illinois Department of Natural Resources.
            (A)   Original    issuance:   $25;   with   $10   to   the
        Roadside Monarch Habitat Fund and $15 to the Secretary
        of State Special License Plate Fund.
            (B) Renewal: $25; with $23 to the Roadside Monarch
        Habitat Fund and $2 to the Secretary of State Special
        License Plate Fund.
        (2) Illinois Veterans Veterans' Homes.
            (A)   Original    issuance:   $26,    which   shall     be
        deposited into the Illinois Veterans Veterans' Homes
        Fund.
            (B) Renewal: $26, which shall be deposited into
        the Illinois Veterans Veterans' Homes Fund.
        (3) The Illinois Department of Human Services for
    volunteerism decals.
            (A)   Original    issuance:   $25,    which   shall     be
        deposited into the Secretary of State Special License
        Plate Fund.
            (B) Renewal: $25, which shall be deposited into
        the Secretary of State Special License Plate Fund.
        (4) (Blank).
        (5) (Blank).
        (6) K9s for Veterans, NFP.
            (A)   Original    issuance:   $25;   with   $10   to   the
        Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Awareness Fund and $15
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        to the Secretary of State Special License Plate Fund.
            (B) Renewal: $25; with $23 to the Post-Traumatic
        Stress Disorder Awareness Fund and $2 to the Secretary
        of State Special License Plate Fund.
        (7) The International Association of Machinists and
    Aerospace Workers.
            (A) Original issuance: $35; with $20 to the Guide
        Dogs of America Fund and $15 to the Secretary of State
        Special License Plate Fund.
            (B) Renewal: $25; with $23 going to the Guide Dogs
        of America Fund and $2 to the Secretary of State
        Special License Plate Fund.
        (8) Local Lodge 701 of the International Association
    of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.
            (A) Original issuance: $35; with $10 to the Guide
        Dogs of America Fund, $10 to the Mechanics Training
        Fund,   and   $15   to   the   Secretary   of   State   Special
        License Plate Fund.
            (B) Renewal: $30; with $13 to the Guide Dogs of
        America Fund, $15 to the Mechanics Training Fund, and
        $2 to the Secretary of State Special License Plate
        Fund.
        (9) (Blank).
        (10) (Blank).
        (11) The Illinois Department of Human Services for
    pediatric cancer awareness decals.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


            (A)   Original      issuance:     $25;    with   $10    to    the
        Pediatric     Cancer    Awareness     Fund     and   $15    to    the
        Secretary of State Special License Plate Fund.
            (B) Renewal: $25; with $23 to the Pediatric Cancer
        Awareness     Fund   and   $2   to   the     Secretary     of    State
        Special License Plate Fund.
        (12) The Department of Veterans Affairs for Folds Fold
    of Honor decals.
            (A) Original issuance: $25; with $10 to the Folds
        of Honor Foundation Fund and $15 to the Secretary of
        State Special License Plate Fund.
            (B) Renewal: $25; with $23 to the Folds of Honor
        Foundation Fund        and $2   to   the     Secretary     of    State
        Special License Plate Fund.
        (13)   The    Illinois     chapters     of     the   Experimental
    Aircraft Association for aviation enthusiast decals.
            (A)   Original      issuance:     $25;    with   $10    to    the
        Experimental Aircraft Association Fund and $15 to the
        Secretary of State Special License Plate Fund.
            (B) Renewal: $25; with $23 to the Experimental
        Aircraft Association Fund and $2 to the Secretary of
        State Special License Plate Fund.
        (14) The Illinois Department of Human Services for
    Child Abuse Council of the Quad Cities decals.
            (A) Original issuance: $25; with $10 to the Child
        Abuse Council of the Quad Cities Fund and $15 to the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        Secretary of State Special License Plate Fund.
            (B) Renewal: $25; with $23 to the Child Abuse
        Council of the Quad Cities Fund and $2 to the Secretary
        of State Special License Plate Fund.
        (15) The Illinois Department of Public Health for
    health care worker decals.
            (A)   Original   issuance:    $25;    with   $10    to   the
        Illinois Health Care Workers Benefit Fund, and $15 to
        the Secretary of State Special License Plate Fund.
            (B) Renewal: $25; with $23 to the Illinois Health
        Care Workers Benefit Fund and $2 to the Secretary of
        State Special License Plate Fund.
        (16) The Department of Agriculture for Future Farmers
    of America decals.
            (A) Original issuance: $25; with $10 to the Future
        Farmers of America Fund and $15 to the Secretary of
        State Special License Plate Fund.
            (B) Renewal: $25; with $23 to the Future Farmers
        of America Fund and $2 to the Secretary of State
        Special License Plate Fund.
        (17) The Illinois Department of Public Health for
    autism awareness decals that are designed with input from
    autism advocacy organizations.
            (A) Original issuance: $25; with $10 to the Autism
        Awareness   Fund   and   $15 to   the    Secretary     of   State
        Special License Plate Fund.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


            (B) Renewal: $25; with $23 to the Autism Awareness
        Fund and $2 to the Secretary of State Special License
        Plate Fund.
        (18) The Department of Natural Resources for Lyme
    disease research decals.
            (A) Original issuance: $25; with $10 to the Tick
        Research, Education, and Evaluation Fund and $15 to
        the Secretary of State Special License Plate Fund.
            (B) Renewal: $25; with $23 to the Tick Research,
        Education, and Evaluation Fund and $2 to the Secretary
        of State Special License Plate Fund.
        (19) The IBEW Thank a Line Worker decal.
            (A)     Original     issuance:   $15,    which   shall   be
        deposited into the Secretary of State Special License
        Plate Fund.
            (B) Renewal: $2, which shall be deposited into the
        Secretary of State Special License Plate Fund.
        (20) An Illinois chapter of the Navy Club for Navy
    Club decals.
            (A)     Original     issuance:    $5;    which   shall   be
    deposited into the Navy Club Fund.
            (B) Renewal: $18; which shall be deposited into
    the Navy Club Fund.
        (21)   An     Illinois    chapter    of     the   International
    Brotherhood     of   Electrical    Workers      for   International
    Brotherhood of Electrical Workers decal.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


             (A)   Original   issuance:     $25;   with    $10    to   the
        International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Fund
        and $15 to the Secretary of State Special License
        Plate Fund.
             (B) Renewal: $25; with $23 to the International
        Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Fund and $2 to the
        Secretary of State Special License Plate Fund.
        (22) The 100 Club of Illinois decal.
             (A) Original issuance: $45; with $30 to the 100
        Club of Illinois Fund and $15 to the Secretary of State
        Special License Plate Fund.
             (B) Renewal: $27; with $25 to the 100 Club of
        Illinois Fund and $2 to the Secretary of State Special
        License Plate Fund.
        (23) The Illinois USTA/Midwest Youth Tennis Foundation
    decal.
             (A)   Original   issuance:     $40;   with    $25    to   the
        Illinois USTA/Midwest Youth Tennis Foundation Fund and
        $15 to the Secretary of State Special License Plate
        Fund.
             (B)   Renewal:   $40;   with    $38   to     the    Illinois
        USTA/Midwest Youth Tennis Foundation Fund and $2 to
        the Secretary of State Special License Plate Fund.
        (24) The Sons of the American Legion decal.
             (A) Original issuance: $25; with $10 to the Sons
        of the American Legion Fund and $15 to the Secretary of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        State Special License Plate Fund.
            (B) Renewal: $25; with $23 to the Sons of the
        American Legion Fund and $2 to the Secretary of State
        Special License Plate Fund.
    (f) The following funds are created as special funds in
the State treasury:
        (1) The Roadside Monarch Habitat Fund. All money in
    the Roadside Monarch Habitat Fund shall be paid as grants
    by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources to fund
    roadside monarch and other pollinator habitat development,
    enhancement, and restoration projects in this State.
        (2) (Blank).
        (3) (Blank).
        (4) The Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Awareness Fund.
    All money in the Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Awareness
    Fund shall be paid as grants to K9s for Veterans, NFP for
    support,   education,   and   awareness   of   veterans   with
    post-traumatic stress disorder.
        (5) The Guide Dogs of America Fund. All money in the
    Guide Dogs of America Fund shall be paid as grants to the
    International Guiding Eyes, Inc., doing business as Guide
    Dogs of America.
        (6) The Mechanics Training Fund. All money in the
    Mechanics Training Fund shall be paid as grants to the
    Mechanics Local 701 Training Fund.
        (7) (Blank).
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        (8) (Blank).
        (9) The Pediatric Cancer Awareness Fund. All money in
    the Pediatric Cancer Awareness Fund shall be paid      as
    grants to the Cancer Center at Illinois for pediatric
    cancer treatment and research.
        (10) The Folds of Honor Foundation Fund. All money in
    the Folds of Honor Foundation Fund shall be paid as grants
    to the Folds of Honor Foundation to aid in providing
    educational scholarships to military families.
        (11) The Experimental Aircraft Association Fund. All
    money in the Experimental Aircraft Association Fund shall
    be paid, subject to appropriation by the General Assembly
    and distribution by the Secretary, as grants to promote
    recreational aviation.
        (12) The Child Abuse Council of the Quad Cities Fund.
    All money in the Child Abuse Council of the Quad Cities
    Fund shall be paid as grants to benefit the Child Abuse
    Council of the Quad Cities.
        (13) The Illinois Health Care Workers Benefit Fund.
    All money in the Illinois Health Care Workers Benefit Fund
    shall be paid as grants to the Trinity Health Foundation
    for the benefit of health care workers, doctors, nurses,
    and others who work in the health care industry in this
    State.
        (14) The Future Farmers of America Fund. All money in
    the Future Farmers of America Fund shall be paid as grants
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    to the Illinois Association of Future Farmers of America.
        (15)    The     Tick   Research,       Education,   and    Evaluation
    Fund. All money in the Tick Research,                   Education, and
    Evaluation Fund shall be paid as grants to the Illinois
    Lyme Association.
        (16) The Navy Club Fund. All money in the Navy Club
    Fund shall be paid as grants to any local chapter of the
    Navy Club that is located in this State.
        (17)     The    International         Brotherhood    of    Electrical
    Workers Fund. All money in the International Brotherhood
    of Electrical Workers Fund shall be paid as grants to any
    local     chapter     of    the        International    Brotherhood     of
    Electrical Workers that is located in this State.
        (18) The 100 Club of Illinois Fund. All money in the
    100 Club of Illinois Fund shall be paid as grants to the
    100 Club of Illinois for the purpose of giving financial
    support to children and spouses of first responders killed
    in the line of duty and mental health resources for active
    duty first responders.
        (19) The Illinois USTA/Midwest Youth Tennis Foundation
    Fund. All money in the Illinois USTA/Midwest Youth Tennis
    Foundation    Fund     shall      be    paid   as   grants    to   Illinois
    USTA/Midwest Youth Tennis Foundation to aid USTA/Midwest
    districts in the State with exposing youth to the game of
    tennis.
        (20) The Sons of the American Legion Fund. All money
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    in the Sons of the American Legion Fund shall be paid as
    grants to the Illinois Detachment of the Sons of the
    American Legion.
    (g) The following funds are dissolved on July 1, 2025:
         (1) The Prostate Cancer Awareness Fund.
         (2) The Horsemen's Council of Illinois Fund.
         (3)     The     Theresa    Tracy    Trot-Illinois   CancerCare
    Foundation Fund.
         (4) The Developmental Disabilities Awareness Fund.
(Source: P.A. 103-112, eff. 1-1-24; 103-163, eff. 1-1-24;
103-349, eff. 1-1-24; 103-605, eff. 7-1-24; 103-664, eff.
1-1-25; 103-665, eff. 1-1-25; 103-855, eff. 1-1-25; 103-911,
eff.   1-1-25;    103-933,    eff.    1-1-25;    104-2,   eff.    6-16-25;
104-234, eff. 8-15-25; 104-417, eff. 8-15-25; 104-435, eff.
11-21-25; revised 12-9-25.)


    (625 ILCS 5/3-699.15)
    Sec. 3-699.15. Coast Guard license plates.
    (a) The Secretary, upon receipt of all applicable fees and
applications made in the form prescribed by the Secretary of
State, may issue special registration plates designated as
U.S. Coast Guard plates. The special plates issued under this
Section shall be affixed only to passenger vehicles of the
first division, motorcycles, autocycles, or motor vehicles of
the second division weighing not more than 8,000 pounds.
Plates   under    this    Section    shall   expire   according    to   the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


multi-year procedure established by Section 3-414.1 of this
Code.
    (b) The design and color of the special plates shall be
wholly within the discretion of the Secretary. Appropriate
documentation, as determined by the Secretary, shall accompany
each application.
    (c) An applicant shall be charged a $26 fee for the
original issuance in addition to the appropriate registration
fee, if applicable. Of this fee, $11 shall be deposited into
the Illinois Veterans Veterans' Homes Fund and $15 shall be
deposited into the Secretary of State Special License Plate
Fund. For each registration renewal period, a $26 fee, in
addition   to   the   appropriate   registration   fee,   shall   be
charged. Of this fee, $24 shall be deposited into the Illinois
Veterans Veterans' Homes Fund and $2 shall be deposited into
the Secretary of State Special License Plate Fund.
(Source: P.A. 103-843, eff. 1-1-25.)


    Section 5-107. The Pretrial Services Act is amended by
changing Section 0.04 as follows:


    (725 ILCS 185/0.04)
    Sec. 0.04. Powers and duties.
    (a) The Office shall provide pretrial services as provided
in Section 7 to circuit courts or counties without existing
pretrial services agencies.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (b)   The   Office    shall    develop,      establish,      adopt,   and
enforce uniform standards for pretrial services in this State.
    (c) The Office may:
          (1) hire and train State employed pretrial personnel;
          (2) establish qualifications for pretrial officers as
    to hiring, promotion, and training;
          (3) establish a system of training and orientation for
    local pretrial services agencies;
          (4) develop Develop standards and approve employee
    compensation      schedules     for      local     pretrial    services
    agencies;
          (5) establish a system of uniform forms;
          (6) develop standards for a system of recordkeeping
    for local pretrial services agencies;
          (7)   gather    statistics      and    develop    research      for
    planning of pretrial services in Illinois;
          (8) establish a means of verifying the conditions for
    reimbursement under this Act for local pretrial services
    agencies    and   develop     criteria      for   approved    costs   for
    reimbursement;
          (9)   monitor   and     evaluate      all    pretrial    programs
    operated by local pretrial services agencies;
          (10) review and approve annual plans submitted by
    local pretrial services agencies; and
          (11) establish such other standards and regulations
    and do all acts necessary to carry out the intent and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    purposes of this Act.
    (d) Subject to appropriation, in State Fiscal Year 2027
only, the Office may expend funds relating to the organization
and administrative responsibilities of the Office of the State
Public Defender established by the State Public Defender Act.
(Source: P.A. 103-602, eff. 7-1-25.)


    Section 5-110. The Revised Uniform Unclaimed Property Act
is amended by changing Section 15-801 as follows:


    (765 ILCS 1026/15-801)
    Sec. 15-801. Deposit of funds by administrator.
    (a) Except as otherwise provided in this Section, the
administrator shall deposit in the Unclaimed Property Trust
Fund all funds received under this Act, including proceeds
from the sale of property under Article 7. The administrator
may deposit any amount in the Unclaimed Property Trust Fund
into the State Pensions Fund during the fiscal year at his or
her discretion; however, he or she shall, on April 15 and
October 15 of each year, deposit any amount in the Unclaimed
Property   Trust   Fund   exceeding       $2,500,000    into   the   State
Pensions Fund. If on either April 15 or October 15, the
administrator   determines   that     a    balance     of   $2,500,000   is
insufficient for the prompt payment of unclaimed property
claims authorized under this Act, the administrator may retain
more than $2,500,000 in the Unclaimed Property Trust Fund in
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


order to ensure the prompt payment of claims. Beginning in
State fiscal year 2028 2027, all amounts that are deposited
into the State Pensions Fund from the Unclaimed Property Trust
Fund shall be apportioned to the designated retirement systems
as provided in subsection (c-6) of Section 8.12 of the State
Finance Act to reduce their actuarial reserve deficiencies.
    (b) The administrator shall make prompt payment of claims
he or she duly allows as provided for in this Act from the
Unclaimed    Property      Trust   Fund.    This   shall    constitute    an
irrevocable and continuing appropriation of all amounts in the
Unclaimed Property Trust Fund necessary to make prompt payment
of claims duly allowed by the administrator pursuant to this
Act.
(Source: P.A. 103-8, eff. 6-7-23; 103-588, eff. 6-5-24; 104-2,
eff. 6-16-25.)


    Section 5-115. The Department of Natural Resources Act is
amended by adding Section 20-25 as follows:


    (20 ILCS 801/20-25 new)
    Sec. 20-25. Illinois State Museum Collection Trust Fund.
    (a) The Illinois State Museum Collection Trust Fund is
created as a trust fund outside the State treasury, to be held
by the State Treasurer as ex officio custodian. The Fund shall
receive     all   moneys    from   the     deaccession     of   objects   of
scientific, historic, and artistic value in the possession of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the State Museum and may also receive transfers, awards,
deposits, other funds made available from any source, public
or private, for the purposes of subsection (b).
    (b) The moneys deposited into the Illinois State Museum
Collection Trust Fund shall be used by the Department for the
State Museum to:
          (1)   purchase   objects        of     scientific,     historic,     and
    artistic value; or
          (2)   maintain   objects        of     scientific,     historic,     and
    artistic value in the possession of the State Museum.
    (c)    Notwithstanding       any      other    provision       of   law,   the
Illinois State Museum Collection Trust Fund is not subject to
sweeps,    administrative     chargebacks,           or    any     other   fiscal
maneuver that would in any way transfer any amounts from the
Fund into any other fund of the State.


                              Article 10.


    Section 10-5. The Illinois Administrative Procedure Act is
amended by adding Sections 5-45.68 and 5-45.69 as follows:


    (5 ILCS 100/5-45.68 new)
    Sec.   5-45.68.      Emergency     rulemaking;        rate     increase    for
direct    support    personnel     and     all    frontline      personnel.     To
provide for the expeditious and timely implementation of the
changes    made     to   Section     74     of     the    Mental    Health     and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Developmental     Disabilities   Administrative   Act   by   this
amendatory Act of the 104th General Assembly, emergency rules
implementing the changes made to Section 74 of the Mental
Health and Developmental Disabilities Administrative Act by
this amendatory Act of the 104th General Assembly may be
adopted in accordance with Section 5-45 by the Department of
Human Services. The adoption of emergency rules authorized by
Section 5-45 and this Section is deemed to be necessary for the
public interest, safety, and welfare.
    This Section is repealed one year after the effective date
of this Section.


    (5 ILCS 100/5-45.69 new)
    Sec. 5-45.69. Emergency rulemaking; Illinois Public Aid
Code. To provide for the expeditious and timely implementation
of the changes made to the Illinois Public Aid Code by this
amendatory Act of the 104th General Assembly, emergency rules
implementing the changes made to that Code by this amendatory
Act of the 104th General Assembly may be adopted in accordance
with Section 5-45 by the Department of Healthcare and Family
Services or any other agency essential to the implementation
of the changes. The adoption of emergency rules authorized by
Section 5-45 and this Section is deemed to be necessary for the
public interest, safety, and welfare.
    This Section is repealed one year after the effective date
of this Section.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b



      Section    10-10.      The     Mental    Health    and    Developmental
Disabilities Administrative Act is amended by changing Section
74 as follows:


      (20 ILCS 1705/74)
      Sec. 74. Rates and reimbursements.
      (a) Within 30 days after July 6, 2017 (the effective date
of Public Act 100-23), the Department shall increase rates and
reimbursements to fund a minimum of a $0.75 per hour wage
increase for frontline personnel, including, but not limited
to,     direct       support       professionals,        aides,       frontline
supervisors,           qualified             intellectual         disabilities
professionals, nurses, and non-administrative support staff
working   in     community-based       provider      organizations      serving
individuals with developmental disabilities. The Department
shall adopt rules, including emergency rules under subsection
(y) of Section 5-45 of the Illinois Administrative Procedure
Act, to implement the provisions of this Section.
      (b) Rates and reimbursements. Within 30 days after June 4,
2018    (the     effective     date     of    Public    Act    100-587),   the
Department shall increase rates and reimbursements to fund a
minimum   of     a   $0.50   per   hour      wage   increase    for   frontline
personnel,      including,     but    not     limited   to,    direct   support
professionals,        aides,       frontline        supervisors,      qualified
intellectual         disabilities         professionals,        nurses,    and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


non-administrative support staff working in community-based
provider organizations serving individuals with developmental
disabilities.   The    Department    shall   adopt     rules,      including
emergency rules under subsection (bb) of Section 5-45 of the
Illinois   Administrative     Procedure      Act,     to    implement    the
provisions of this Section.
    (c) Rates and reimbursements. Within 30 days after June 5,
2019 (the effective date of Public Act 101-10), subject to
federal approval, the Department shall increase rates and
reimbursements in effect on June 30, 2019 for community-based
providers for persons with Developmental Disabilities by 3.5%.
The Department shall adopt rules, including emergency rules
under   subsection     (jj)   of   Section    5-45     of    the   Illinois
Administrative Procedure Act, to implement the provisions of
this Section, including wage increases for direct care staff.
    (d) For community-based providers serving persons with
intellectual/developmental disabilities, subject to federal
approval of any relevant Waiver Amendment, the rates taking
effect for services delivered on or after January 1, 2022,
shall include an increase in the rate methodology sufficient
to provide a $1.50 per hour wage increase for direct support
professionals     in   residential    settings       and    sufficient    to
provide wages for all residential non-executive direct care
staff, excluding direct support professionals, at the federal
Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics' average wage
as defined in rule by the Department.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    The    establishment     of   and   any   changes   to    the    rate
methodologies for community-based services provided to persons
with intellectual/developmental disabilities are subject to
federal approval of any relevant Waiver Amendment and shall be
defined in rule by the Department. The Department shall adopt
rules, including emergency rules as authorized by Section 5-45
of the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act, to implement the
provisions of this subsection (d).
    (e) For community-based providers serving persons with
intellectual/developmental disabilities, subject to federal
approval of any relevant Waiver Amendment, the rates taking
effect for services delivered on or after January 1, 2023,
shall include an increase in the rate methodology sufficient
to provide a $1.00 per hour wage increase for all direct
support professionals and all other frontline personnel who
are not subject to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' average
wage increases, who work in residential and community day
services settings, with at least $0.50 of those funds to be
provided   as   a   direct   increase   to    base   wages,   with   the
remaining $0.50 to be used flexibly for base wage increases.
In addition, the rates taking effect for services delivered on
or after January 1, 2023 shall include an increase sufficient
to provide wages for all residential non-executive direct care
staff, excluding direct support professionals, at the federal
Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics' average wage
as defined in rule by the Department.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    The    establishment    of   and   any   changes     to   the    rate
methodologies for community-based services provided to persons
with intellectual/developmental disabilities are subject to
federal approval of any relevant Waiver Amendment and shall be
defined in rule by the Department. The Department shall adopt
rules, including emergency rules as authorized by Section 5-45
of the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act, to implement the
provisions of this subsection.
    (f) For community-based providers serving persons with
intellectual/developmental disabilities, subject to federal
approval of any relevant Waiver Amendment, the rates taking
effect for services delivered on or after January 1, 2024
shall include an increase in the rate methodology sufficient
to provide a $2.50 per hour wage increase for all direct
support professionals and all other frontline personnel who
are not subject to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' average
wage increases and who work in residential and community day
services   settings.   At   least   $1.25    of   the   per   hour   wage
increase shall be provided as a direct increase to base wages,
and the remaining $1.25 of the per hour wage increase shall be
used flexibly for base wage increases. In addition, the rates
taking effect for services delivered on or after January 1,
2024 shall include an increase sufficient to provide wages for
all residential non-executive direct care staff, excluding
direct support professionals, at the federal Department of
Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics' average wage as defined in
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


rule by the Department.
    The     establishment   of       and   any   changes   to   the    rate
methodologies for community-based services provided to persons
with intellectual/developmental disabilities are subject to
federal approval of any relevant Waiver Amendment and shall be
defined in rule by the Department. The Department shall adopt
rules, including emergency rules as authorized by Section 5-45
of the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act, to implement the
provisions of this subsection.
    (g) For community-based providers serving persons with
intellectual or developmental disabilities, subject to federal
approval of any relevant Waiver Amendment, the rates taking
effect for services delivered on or after January 1, 2025
shall include an increase in the rate methodology sufficient
to provide a $1 per hour wage rate increase for all direct
support personnel and all other frontline personnel who are
not subject to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' average wage
increases    and   who   work   in    residential    and   community   day
services settings, with at least $0.75 of those funds to be
provided as a direct increase to base wages and the remaining
$0.25 to be used flexibly for base wage increases. These
increases shall not be used by community-based providers for
operational or administrative expenses. In addition, the rates
taking effect for services delivered on or after January 1,
2025 shall include an increase sufficient to provide wages for
all residential non-executive direct care staff, excluding
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


direct support personnel, at the federal Department of Labor,
Bureau of Labor Statistics' average wage as defined by rule by
the Department. For services delivered on or after January 1,
2025,     the      rates        shall        include     adjustments        to
employment-related       expenses       as    defined    by   rule    by   the
Department.
    The     establishment    of       and    any   changes    to     the   rate
methodologies for community-based services provided to persons
with intellectual or developmental disabilities are subject to
federal approval of any relevant Waiver Amendment and shall be
defined in rule by the Department. The Department shall adopt
rules, including emergency rules as authorized by Section 5-45
of the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act, to implement the
provisions of this subsection.
    (h) For community-based providers serving persons with
intellectual or developmental disabilities, subject to federal
approval of any relevant Waiver Amendment, the rates taking
effect for services delivered on or after January 1, 2026
shall include an increase in the rate methodology sufficient
to provide a $0.80 per hour wage increase for all direct
support personnel and all other frontline personnel who are
not subject to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' average wage
increases    and   who   work    in     residential     and   community    day
services settings, with at least $0.60 of the per hour wage
increase to be provided as a direct increase to base wages, and
the remaining $0.20 of the per hour wage increase to be used
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


flexibly for base wage increases. These increases shall not be
used   by        community-based        providers     for     operational     or
administrative expenses. In addition, the rates taking effect
for services delivered on or after January 1, 2026 shall
include     an    increase   sufficient       to    provide   wages    for   all
residential non-executive direct care staff, excluding direct
support personnel, at the federal Department of Labor, Bureau
of Labor Statistics' average wage as defined in rule by the
Department.
    The     establishment     of        and   any   changes     to    the    rate
methodologies for community-based services provided to persons
with intellectual or developmental disabilities are subject to
federal approval of any relevant Waiver Amendment and shall be
defined in rule by the Department. The Department shall adopt
rules, including emergency rules as authorized by Section 5-45
of the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act, to implement the
provisions of this subsection.
    (i) For community-based providers serving persons with
intellectual or developmental disabilities, subject to federal
approval of any relevant Waiver Amendment, the rates taking
effect for services delivered on or after January 1, 2027,
shall include an increase in the rate methodology sufficient
to provide a $0.60 per hour wage increase for all direct
support personnel and all other frontline personnel who are
not subject to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' average wage
increases    and     who   work    in    residential    and    community     day
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


services settings, with at least $0.30 of the per hour wage
increase to be provided as a direct increase to base wages, and
the remaining $0.30 of the per hour wage increase to be used
flexibly for base wage increases. These increases shall not be
used   by        community-based     providers      for      operational     or
administrative expenses. In addition, the rates taking effect
for services delivered on or after January 1, 2027, shall
include     an    increase    sufficient     to   provide    wages    for   all
residential non-executive direct care staff, excluding direct
support personnel, at the federal Department of Labor, Bureau
of Labor Statistics' average wage as defined in rule by the
Department.
    The     establishment      of    and    any    changes     to    the    rate
methodologies for community-based services provided to persons
with intellectual or developmental disabilities are subject to
federal approval of any relevant Waiver Amendment and shall be
defined in rule by the Department. The Department shall adopt
rules, including emergency rules as authorized by Section 5-45
of the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act, to implement the
provisions of this subsection.
(Source:    P.A.     103-8,   eff.    6-7-23;     103-154,    eff.    6-30-23;
103-588, eff. 6-5-24; 104-2, eff. 6-16-25.)


    Section 10-15. The Illinois Public Aid Code is amended by
changing     Sections    5-5.4      and    5-55   and   by   adding    Section
12-4.13f as follows:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b



    (305 ILCS 5/5-5.4) (from Ch. 23, par. 5-5.4)
    Sec. 5-5.4. Standards of payment; Department of Healthcare
and Family Services. The Department of Healthcare and Family
Services   shall   develop    standards      of   payment   of    nursing
facility and ICF/DD services in facilities providing such
services under this Article which:
    (1) Provide for the determination of a facility's payment
for nursing facility or ICF/DD services on a prospective
basis.   The   amount   of   the   payment    rate   for    all   nursing
facilities certified by the Department of Public Health under
the ID/DD Community Care Act or the Nursing Home Care Act as
Intermediate Care for the Developmentally Disabled facilities,
Long Term Care for Under Age 22 facilities, Skilled Nursing
facilities, or Intermediate Care facilities under the medical
assistance program shall be prospectively established annually
on the basis of historical, financial, and statistical data
reflecting actual costs from prior years, which shall be
applied to the current rate year and updated for inflation,
except that the capital cost element for newly constructed
facilities shall be based upon projected budgets. The annually
established payment rate shall take effect on July 1 in 1984
and subsequent years. No rate increase and no update for
inflation shall be provided on or after July 1, 1994, unless
specifically provided for in this Section. The changes made by
Public Act 93-841 extending the duration of the prohibition
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


against a rate increase or update for inflation are effective
retroactive to July 1, 2004.
      For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the Nursing Home Care Act as Intermediate Care for the
Developmentally Disabled facilities or Long Term Care for
Under Age 22 facilities, the rates taking effect on July 1,
1998 shall include an increase of 3%. For facilities licensed
by the Department of Public Health under the Nursing Home Care
Act    as   Skilled   Nursing   facilities    or   Intermediate   Care
facilities, the rates taking effect on July 1, 1998 shall
include an increase of 3% plus $1.10 per resident-day, as
defined by the Department. For facilities licensed by the
Department of Public Health under the Nursing Home Care Act as
Intermediate Care Facilities for the Developmentally Disabled
or Long Term Care for Under Age 22 facilities, the rates taking
effect on January 1, 2006 shall include an increase of 3%. For
facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health under
the Nursing Home Care Act as Intermediate Care Facilities for
the Developmentally Disabled or Long Term Care for Under Age
22 facilities, the rates taking effect on January 1, 2009
shall include an increase sufficient to provide a $0.50 per
hour wage increase for non-executive staff. For facilities
licensed by the Department of Public Health under the ID/DD
Community Care Act as ID/DD Facilities the rates taking effect
within 30 days after July 6, 2017 (the effective date of Public
Act 100-23) shall include an increase sufficient to provide a
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


$0.75 per hour wage increase for non-executive staff. The
Department shall adopt rules, including emergency rules under
subsection (y) of Section 5-45 of the Illinois Administrative
Procedure Act, to implement the provisions of this paragraph.
For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the ID/DD Community Care Act as ID/DD Facilities and
under the MC/DD Act as MC/DD Facilities, the rates taking
effect within 30 days after June 5, 2019 (the effective date of
Public Act 101-10) shall include an increase sufficient to
provide a $0.50 per hour wage increase for non-executive
frontline personnel, including, but not limited to, direct
support   persons,    aides,    frontline      supervisors,   qualified
intellectual      disabilities     professionals,        nurses,      and
non-administrative support staff. The Department shall adopt
rules, including emergency rules under subsection (bb) of
Section 5-45 of the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act, to
implement the provisions of this paragraph.
    For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the Nursing Home Care Act as Intermediate Care for the
Developmentally Disabled facilities or Long Term Care for
Under Age 22 facilities, the rates taking effect on July 1,
1999   shall   include   an    increase   of    1.6%   plus   $3.00   per
resident-day, as defined by the Department. For facilities
licensed by the Department of Public Health under the Nursing
Home Care Act as Skilled Nursing facilities or Intermediate
Care facilities, the rates taking effect on July 1, 1999 shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


include an increase of 1.6% and, for services provided on or
after    October    1,    1999,   shall   be    increased        by     $4.00   per
resident-day, as defined by the Department.
      For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the Nursing Home Care Act as Intermediate Care for the
Developmentally Disabled facilities or Long Term Care for
Under Age 22 facilities, the rates taking effect on July 1,
2000 shall include an increase of 2.5% per resident-day, as
defined by the Department. For facilities licensed by the
Department of Public Health under the Nursing Home Care Act as
Skilled Nursing facilities or Intermediate Care facilities,
the rates taking effect on July 1, 2000 shall include an
increase     of    2.5%    per    resident-day,        as   defined       by    the
Department.
      For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the Nursing Home Care Act as skilled nursing facilities
or intermediate care facilities, a new payment methodology
must be implemented for the nursing component of the rate
effective July 1, 2003. The Department of Public Aid (now
Healthcare and Family Services) shall develop the new payment
methodology using the Minimum Data Set (MDS) as the instrument
to    collect     information     concerning         nursing     home    resident
condition necessary to compute the rate. The Department shall
develop the new payment methodology to meet the unique needs
of Illinois nursing home residents while remaining subject to
the     appropriations     provided    by      the     General     Assembly.     A
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


transition period from the payment methodology in effect on
June 30, 2003 to the payment methodology in effect on July 1,
2003 shall be provided for a period not exceeding 3 years and
184 days after implementation of the new payment methodology
as follows:
        (A) For a facility that would receive a lower nursing
    component rate per patient day under the new system than
    the facility received effective on the date immediately
    preceding the date that the Department implements the new
    payment     methodology,   the    nursing   component      rate   per
    patient day for the facility shall be held at the level in
    effect on the date immediately preceding the date that the
    Department implements the new payment methodology until a
    higher nursing component rate of reimbursement is achieved
    by that facility.
        (B) For a facility that would receive a higher nursing
    component     rate   per   patient    day   under    the     payment
    methodology in effect on July 1, 2003 than the facility
    received effective on the date immediately preceding the
    date   that   the    Department   implements   the    new    payment
    methodology, the nursing component rate per patient day
    for the facility shall be adjusted.
        (C)     Notwithstanding   paragraphs    (A)     and    (B),   the
    nursing component rate per patient day for the facility
    shall be adjusted subject to appropriations provided by
    the General Assembly.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the Nursing Home Care Act as Intermediate Care for the
Developmentally Disabled facilities or Long Term Care for
Under Age 22 facilities, the rates taking effect on March 1,
2001 shall include a statewide increase of 7.85%, as defined
by the Department.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, for
facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health under
the Nursing Home Care Act as skilled nursing facilities or
intermediate care facilities, except facilities participating
in the Department's demonstration program pursuant to the
provisions of Title 77, Part 300, Subpart T of the Illinois
Administrative Code, the numerator of the ratio used by the
Department of Healthcare and Family Services to compute the
rate payable under this Section using the Minimum Data Set
(MDS)   methodology      shall     incorporate       the    following      annual
amounts as the additional funds appropriated to the Department
specifically     to    pay   for    rates    based    on     the   MDS    nursing
component methodology in excess of the funding in effect on
December 31, 2006:
         (i)     For    rates      taking    effect        January   1,    2007,
    $60,000,000.
         (ii)    For    rates      taking    effect        January   1,    2008,
    $110,000,000.
         (iii)    For    rates      taking    effect       January   1,    2009,
    $194,000,000.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        (iv) For rates taking effect April 1, 2011, or the
    first day of the month that begins at least 45 days after
    February   16,   2011   (the   effective   date   of   Public   Act
    96-1530), $416,500,000 or an amount as may be necessary to
    complete the transition to the MDS methodology for the
    nursing component of the rate. Increased payments under
    this item (iv) are not due and payable, however, until (i)
    the methodologies described in this paragraph are approved
    by the federal government in an appropriate State Plan
    amendment and (ii) the assessment imposed by Section 5B-2
    of this Code is determined to be a permissible tax under
    Title XIX of the Social Security Act.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, for
facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health under
the Nursing Home Care Act as skilled nursing facilities or
intermediate care facilities, the support component of the
rates taking effect on January 1, 2008 shall be computed using
the most recent cost reports on file with the Department of
Healthcare and Family Services no later than April 1, 2005,
updated for inflation to January 1, 2006.
    For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the Nursing Home Care Act as Intermediate Care for the
Developmentally Disabled facilities or Long Term Care for
Under Age 22 facilities, the rates taking effect on April 1,
2002 shall include a statewide increase of 2.0%, as defined by
the Department. This increase terminates on July 1, 2002;
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


beginning July 1, 2002 these rates are reduced to the level of
the rates in effect on March 31, 2002, as defined by the
Department.
    For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the Nursing Home Care Act as skilled nursing facilities
or intermediate care facilities, the rates taking effect on
July 1, 2001 shall be computed using the most recent cost
reports on file with the Department of Public Aid no later than
April 1, 2000, updated for inflation to January 1, 2001. For
rates effective July 1, 2001 only, rates shall be the greater
of the rate computed for July 1, 2001 or the rate effective on
June 30, 2001.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, for
facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health under
the Nursing Home Care Act as skilled nursing facilities or
intermediate care facilities, the Illinois Department shall
determine by rule the rates taking effect on July 1, 2002,
which shall be 5.9% less than the rates in effect on June 30,
2002.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, for
facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health under
the Nursing Home Care Act as skilled nursing facilities or
intermediate care facilities, if the payment methodologies
required under Section 5A-12 and the waiver granted under 42
CFR 433.68 are approved by the United States Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services, the rates taking effect on
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


July 1, 2004 shall be 3.0% greater than the rates in effect on
June   30,   2004.    These   rates     shall      take   effect   only   upon
approval     and   implementation       of   the    payment   methodologies
required under Section 5A-12.
    Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Section, for
facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health under
the Nursing Home Care Act as skilled nursing facilities or
intermediate       care   facilities,    the    rates     taking   effect   on
January 1, 2005 shall be 3% more than the rates in effect on
December 31, 2004.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, for
facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health under
the Nursing Home Care Act as skilled nursing facilities or
intermediate care facilities, effective January 1, 2009, the
per diem support component of the rates effective on January
1, 2008, computed using the most recent cost reports on file
with the Department of Healthcare and Family Services no later
than April 1, 2005, updated for inflation to January 1, 2006,
shall be increased to the amount that would have been derived
using standard Department of Healthcare and Family Services
methods, procedures, and inflators.
    Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Section, for
facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health under
the Nursing Home Care Act as intermediate care facilities that
are federally defined as Institutions for Mental Disease, or
facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health under
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the Specialized Mental Health Rehabilitation Act of 2013, a
socio-development          component        rate       equal    to       6.6%    of   the
facility's nursing component rate as of January 1, 2006 shall
be   established        and    paid       effective       July       1,     2006.     The
socio-development component of the rate shall be increased by
a factor of 2.53 on the first day of the month that begins at
least 45 days after January 11, 2008 (the effective date of
Public      Act      95-707).        As     of     August           1,     2008,      the
socio-development component rate shall be equal to 6.6% of the
facility's nursing component rate as of January 1, 2006,
multiplied by a factor of 3.53. For services provided on or
after April 1, 2011, or the first day of the month that begins
at least 45 days after February 16, 2011 (the effective date of
Public   Act       96-1530),        whichever      is     later,         the    Illinois
Department        may   by     rule       adjust       these    socio-development
component         rates,      and     may        use     different             adjustment
methodologies for those facilities participating, and those
not participating, in the Illinois Department's demonstration
program pursuant to the provisions of Title 77, Part 300,
Subpart T of the Illinois Administrative Code, but in no case
may such rates be diminished below those in effect on August 1,
2008.
     For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the Nursing Home Care Act as Intermediate Care for the
Developmentally         Disabled      facilities         or    as    long-term        care
facilities for residents under 22 years of age, the rates
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


taking   effect    on    July    1,   2003    shall   include      a   statewide
increase of 4%, as defined by the Department.
    For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the Nursing Home Care Act as Intermediate Care for the
Developmentally Disabled facilities or Long Term Care for
Under Age 22 facilities, the rates taking effect on the first
day of the month that begins at least 45 days after January 11,
2008 (the effective date of Public Act 95-707) shall include a
statewide increase of 2.5%, as defined by the Department.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, for
facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health under
the Nursing Home Care Act as skilled nursing facilities or
intermediate      care   facilities,         effective   January       1,   2005,
facility rates shall be increased by the difference between
(i) a facility's per diem property, liability, and malpractice
insurance costs as reported in the cost report filed with the
Department of Public Aid and used to establish rates effective
July 1, 2001 and (ii) those same costs as reported in the
facility's 2002 cost report. These costs shall be passed
through to the facility without caps or limitations, except
for adjustments required under normal auditing procedures.
    Rates   established         effective     each    July    1   shall     govern
payment for services rendered throughout that fiscal year,
except   that   rates     established        on   July   1,   1996     shall   be
increased by 6.8% for services provided on or after January 1,
1997. Such rates will be based upon the rates calculated for
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the year beginning July 1, 1990, and for subsequent years
thereafter until June 30, 2001 shall be based on the facility
cost reports for the facility fiscal year ending at any point
in time during the previous calendar year, updated to the
midpoint of the rate year. The cost report shall be on file
with the Department no later than April 1 of the current rate
year. Should the cost report not be on file by April 1, the
Department shall base the rate on the latest cost report filed
by each skilled care facility and intermediate care facility,
updated     to   the   midpoint   of     the   current   rate    year.    In
determining rates for services rendered on and after July 1,
1985, fixed time shall not be computed at less than zero. The
Department shall not make any alterations of regulations which
would reduce any component of the Medicaid rate to a level
below what that component would have been utilizing in the
rate effective on July 1, 1984.
    (2) Shall take into account the actual costs incurred by
facilities in providing services for recipients of skilled
nursing   and    intermediate     care   services   under   the    medical
assistance program.
    (3) Shall take into account the medical and psycho-social
characteristics and needs of the patients.
    (4) Shall take into account the actual costs incurred by
facilities in meeting licensing and certification standards
imposed and prescribed by the State of Illinois, any of its
political    subdivisions    or    municipalities    and    by    the    U.S.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Department of Health and Human Services pursuant to Title XIX
of the Social Security Act.
      The Department of Healthcare and Family Services shall
develop precise standards for payments to reimburse nursing
facilities for any utilization of appropriate rehabilitative
personnel for the provision of rehabilitative services which
is authorized by federal regulations, including reimbursement
for services provided by qualified therapists or qualified
assistants,     and     which       is    in    accordance          with     accepted
professional practices. Reimbursement also may be made for
utilization of other supportive personnel under appropriate
supervision.
      The Department shall develop enhanced payments to offset
the    additional      costs        incurred     by      a    facility          serving
exceptional    need     residents         and    shall       allocate      at    least
$4,000,000     of     the     funds      collected      from    the        assessment
established by Section 5B-2 of this Code for such payments.
For the purpose of this Section, "exceptional needs" means,
but need not be limited to, ventilator care and traumatic
brain injury care. The enhanced payments for exceptional need
residents    under     this    paragraph        are    not    due    and    payable,
however,     until    (i)     the     methodologies          described      in     this
paragraph    are     approved       by   the    federal       government         in   an
appropriate    State        Plan    amendment    and     (ii)    the       assessment
imposed by Section 5B-2 of this Code is determined to be a
permissible tax under Title XIX of the Social Security Act.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      Beginning         January        1,   2014       the     methodologies              for
reimbursement of nursing facility services as provided under
this Section 5-5.4 shall no longer be applicable for services
provided on or after January 1, 2014.
      No    payment      increase       under     this      Section       for   the       MDS
methodology,            exceptional            care         residents,          or        the
socio-development component rate established by Public Act
96-1530     of    the     96th    General        Assembly      and    funded         by   the
assessment imposed under Section 5B-2 of this Code shall be
due   and    payable          until    after     the   Department         notifies        the
long-term        care     providers,        in    writing,         that   the    payment
methodologies to long-term care providers required under this
Section have been approved by the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services of the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services      and       the    waivers      under      42    CFR     433.68     for       the
assessment imposed by this Section, if necessary, have been
granted by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services of
the   U.S.       Department       of    Health      and     Human     Services.           Upon
notification to the Department of approval of the payment
methodologies required under this Section and the waivers
granted under 42 CFR 433.68, all increased payments otherwise
due under this Section prior to the date of notification shall
be due and payable within 90 days of the date federal approval
is received.
      On and after July 1, 2012, the Department shall reduce any
rate of reimbursement for services or other payments or alter
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


any methodologies authorized by this Code to reduce any rate
of reimbursement for services or other payments in accordance
with Section 5-5e.
    For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the ID/DD Community Care Act as ID/DD Facilities and
under the MC/DD Act as MC/DD Facilities, subject to federal
approval, the rates taking effect for services delivered on or
after August 1, 2019 shall be increased by 3.5% over the rates
in effect on June 30, 2019. The Department shall adopt rules,
including emergency rules under subsection (ii) of Section
5-45   of    the   Illinois     Administrative           Procedure       Act,    to
implement    the   provisions       of   this     Section,      including       wage
increases for direct care staff.
    For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the ID/DD Community Care Act as ID/DD Facilities and
under the MC/DD Act as MC/DD Facilities, subject to federal
approval,    the   rates     taking      effect    on    the    latter    of    the
approval date of the State Plan Amendment for these facilities
or the Waiver Amendment for the home and community-based
services settings shall include an increase sufficient to
provide a $0.26 per hour wage increase to the base wage for
non-executive      staff.     The     Department        shall    adopt     rules,
including emergency rules as authorized by Section 5-45 of the
Illinois     Administrative     Procedure         Act,    to    implement       the
provisions    of   this     Section,     including       wage   increases       for
direct care staff.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the ID/DD Community Care Act as ID/DD Facilities and
under the MC/DD Act as MC/DD Facilities, subject to federal
approval of the State Plan Amendment and the Waiver Amendment
for the home and community-based services settings, the rates
taking effect for the services delivered on or after July 1,
2020 shall include an increase sufficient to provide a $1.00
per hour wage increase for non-executive staff. For services
delivered on or after January 1, 2021, subject to federal
approval of the State Plan Amendment and the Waiver Amendment
for the home and community-based services settings, shall
include an increase sufficient to provide a $0.50 per hour
increase for non-executive staff. The Department shall adopt
rules, including emergency rules as authorized by Section 5-45
of the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act, to implement the
provisions   of   this   Section,   including   wage   increases   for
direct care staff.
    For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the ID/DD Community Care Act as ID/DD Facilities and
under the MC/DD Act as MC/DD Facilities, subject to federal
approval of the State Plan Amendment, the rates taking effect
for the residential services delivered on or after July 1,
2021, shall include an increase sufficient to provide a $0.50
per hour increase for aides in the rate methodology. For
facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health under
the ID/DD Community Care Act as ID/DD Facilities and under the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


MC/DD Act as MC/DD Facilities, subject to federal approval of
the State Plan Amendment, the rates taking effect for the
residential services delivered on or after January 1, 2022
shall include an increase sufficient to provide a $1.00 per
hour increase for aides in the rate methodology. In addition,
for residential services delivered on or after January 1, 2022
such rates shall include an increase sufficient to provide
wages for all residential non-executive direct care staff,
excluding aides, at the federal Department of Labor, Bureau of
Labor Statistics' average wage as defined in rule by the
Department.     The    Department     shall    adopt   rules,     including
emergency rules as authorized by Section 5-45 of the Illinois
Administrative Procedure Act, to implement the provisions of
this Section.
    For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the ID/DD Community Care Act as ID/DD facilities and
under the MC/DD Act as MC/DD facilities, subject to federal
approval of the State Plan Amendment, the rates taking effect
for services delivered on or after January 1, 2023, shall
include a $1.00 per hour wage increase for all direct support
personnel   and      all   other   frontline    personnel   who    are   not
subject   to   the    Bureau   of   Labor     Statistics'   average      wage
increases, who work in residential and community day services
settings, with at least $0.50 of those funds to be provided as
a direct increase to all aide base wages, with the remaining
$0.50 to be used flexibly for base wage increases to the rate
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


methodology for aides. In addition, for residential services
delivered on or after January 1, 2023 the rates shall include
an increase sufficient to provide wages for all residential
non-executive      direct      care      staff,    excluding         aides,      at   the
federal    Department       of   Labor,      Bureau      of    Labor       Statistics'
average    wage    as    determined        by    the    Department.         Also,     for
services delivered on or after January 1, 2023, the rates will
include adjustments to employment-related expenses as defined
in rule by the Department. The Department shall adopt rules,
including emergency rules as authorized by Section 5-45 of the
Illinois    Administrative          Procedure          Act,    to    implement        the
provisions of this Section.
    For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the ID/DD Community Care Act as ID/DD facilities and
under the MC/DD Act as MC/DD facilities, subject to federal
approval of the State Plan Amendment, the rates taking effect
for services delivered on or after January 1, 2024 shall
include a $2.50 per hour wage increase for all direct support
personnel    and      all   other     frontline        personnel          who   are   not
subject    to   the     Bureau     of    Labor    Statistics'         average         wage
increases    and      who   work    in     residential        and    community        day
services    settings.       At     least    $1.25      of     the    per    hour      wage
increase shall be provided as a direct increase to all aide
base wages, and the remaining $1.25 of the per hour wage
increase shall be used flexibly for base wage increases to the
rate   methodology       for     aides.     In    addition,         for    residential
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


services delivered on or after January 1, 2024, the rates
shall include an increase sufficient to provide wages for all
residential non-executive direct care staff, excluding aides,
at     the    federal          Department      of    Labor,    Bureau      of   Labor
Statistics' average wage as determined by the Department.
Also, for services delivered on or after January 1, 2024, the
rates will include adjustments to employment-related expenses
as defined in rule by the Department. The Department shall
adopt    rules,      including          emergency     rules    as   authorized     by
Section 5-45 of the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act, to
implement the provisions of this Section.
     For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the ID/DD Community Care Act as ID/DD facilities and
under the MC/DD Act as MC/DD facilities, subject to federal
approval of a State Plan Amendment, the rates taking effect
for services delivered on or after January 1, 2025 shall
include a $1.00 per hour wage increase for all direct support
personnel      and       all    other    frontline     personnel     who    are   not
subject       to   the    Bureau       of    Labor   Statistics'     average      wage
increases      and       who    work    in    residential     and   community     day
services settings, with at least $0.75 of those funds to be
provided as a direct increase to all aide base wages and the
remaining $0.25 to be used flexibly for base wage increases to
the rate methodology for aides. These increases shall not be
used     by    facilities          for       operational      and   administrative
expenses. In addition, for residential services delivered on
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


or after January 1, 2025, the rates shall include an increase
sufficient to provide wages for all residential non-executive
direct care staff, excluding aides, at the federal Department
of     Labor,      Bureau      of   Labor     Statistics'      average     wage    as
determined by the Department. Also, for services delivered on
or after January 1, 2025, the rates will include adjustments
to employment-related expenses as defined in rule by the
Department.        The      Department       shall    adopt    rules,      including
emergency rules as authorized by Section 5-45 of the Illinois
Administrative Procedure Act, to implement the provisions of
this Section.
     For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the ID/DD Community Care Act as ID/DD facilities and
under the MC/DD Act as MC/DD facilities, subject to federal
approval of a State Plan Amendment, the rates taking effect
for services delivered on or after January 1, 2026 shall
include a $0.80 per hour wage increase for all direct support
personnel       and      all   other      frontline    personnel     who    are   not
subject       to   the    Bureau      of    Labor    Statistics'     average      wage
increases       and      who   work    in    residential      and   community     day
services settings, with at least $0.60 of those funds to be
provided as a direct increase to all aide base wages and the
remaining $0.20 to be used flexibly for base wage increases to
the rate methodology for aides. These increases shall not be
used     by     facilities          for     operational    and      administrative
expenses. In addition, for residential services delivered on
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


or after January 1, 2026, the rates shall include an increase
sufficient to provide wages for all residential non-executive
direct care staff, excluding aides, at the federal Department
of     Labor,      Bureau      of   Labor     Statistics'      average     wage    as
determined by the Department. Also, for services delivered on
or after January 1, 2026, the rates will include adjustments
to employment-related expenses as defined in rule by the
Department.        The      Department       shall    adopt    rules,      including
emergency rules as authorized by Section 5-45 of the Illinois
Administrative Procedure Act, to implement the provisions of
this Section.
     For facilities licensed by the Department of Public Health
under the ID/DD Community Care Act as ID/DD facilities and
under the MC/DD Act as MC/DD facilities, subject to federal
approval of a State Plan Amendment, the rates taking effect
for services delivered on or after January 1, 2027, shall
include a $0.60 per hour wage increase for all direct support
personnel       and      all   other      frontline    personnel     who    are   not
subject       to   the    Bureau      of    Labor    Statistics'     average      wage
increases       and      who   work    in    residential      and   community     day
services settings, with at least $0.30 of those funds to be
provided as a direct increase to all aide base wages and the
remaining $0.30 to be used flexibly for base wage increases to
the rate methodology for aides. These increases shall not be
used     by     facilities          for     operational    and      administrative
expenses. In addition, for residential services delivered on
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


or after January 1, 2027, the rates shall include an increase
sufficient to provide wages for all residential non-executive
direct care staff, excluding aides, at the federal Department
of   Labor,   Bureau     of   Labor    Statistics'    average   wage   as
determined by the Department. Also, for services delivered on
or after January 1, 2027, the rates will include adjustments
to employment-related expenses as defined in rule by the
Department.     The    Department     shall   adopt   rules,    including
emergency rules as authorized by Section 5-45 of the Illinois
Administrative Procedure Act, to implement the provisions of
this Section.
     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section to the
contrary, any regional wage adjuster for facilities located
outside of the counties of Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry,
and Will shall be no lower than 1.00, and any regional wage
adjuster for facilities located within the counties of Cook,
DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, and Will shall be no lower than
1.15.
(Source: P.A. 103-8, eff. 6-7-23; 103-588, eff. 7-1-24; 104-2,
eff. 6-16-25.)


     (305 ILCS 5/5-55)
     Sec.   5-55.     Reimbursement    for    music   therapy   services.
Subject to federal approval, for dates of service beginning on
and after July 1, 2027 2025, the Department shall reimburse
music therapy services provided by licensed professional music
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


therapists.    To    be   eligible   for   reimbursement     under   this
Section, music therapy services must be provided by a licensed
professional music therapist authorized to practice under the
Music Therapy Licensing and Practice Act.
(Source: P.A. 103-593, eff. 6-7-24.)


    (305 ILCS 5/12-4.13f new)
    Sec. 12-4.13f. Families Receiving Emergency Support for
Hunger (FRESH) Program.
    (a) As used in this Section:
    "FRESH     benefits"    means    one-time,   lump   sum    payments
authorized under this Section.
    "SNAP benefits" means benefits provided under Chapter 51
of Title VII of the United States Code.
    (b) Subject to available funding, the Department of Human
Services     shall   establish   a   Families    Receiving    Emergency
Support for Hunger (FRESH) Program to provide FRESH benefits
to individuals subject to termination of their SNAP benefits
or a reduction in their household's monthly SNAP benefit
allotment, if:
        (1) the termination or reduction in SNAP benefits
    occurred as a result of the individual failing to meet
    SNAP work requirements; and
        (2) the individual is not certified as eligible and
    enrolled in SNAP on the 16th day of the calendar month in
    which the termination or reduction of benefits, as set
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    forth in paragraph (1) of this subsection, took effect.
    (c)   Individuals   eligible     for   FRESH   benefits   shall    be
provided a one-time, lump sum payment equal to $400. Multiple
individuals within the same SNAP household can receive FRESH
benefits as set forth in subsection (e).
          (d)(1) The Department of Human Services shall issue
    FRESH benefits to eligible individuals automatically. The
    Department shall not require any application, action, or
    additional    information   from       eligible     individuals    to
    receive FRESH benefits.
          (2) If the reduction or termination of SNAP benefits,
    as set forth in subsection (b), occurred on or after May 1,
    2026 but prior to August 1, 2026, the Department shall
    provide FRESH benefits no later than August 1, 2026.
          (3) If the reduction or termination of SNAP benefits,
    as set forth in subsection (b), occurred on or after
    August 1, 2026, the Department shall immediately issue
    FRESH benefits on the 16th day of the calendar month in
    which   the   termination   or    reduction    of    benefits     took
    effect, as set forth in subsection (b).
    (e)   Individuals   eligible     for   FRESH   benefits   shall    be
limited to one issuance of FRESH benefits per individual
subject to a reduction or termination of SNAP benefits as set
forth in subsection (b). Multiple individuals within the same
SNAP household can receive FRESH benefits.
    (f) FRESH benefits under this Section shall be provided to
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


eligible individuals in the form of cash benefits distributed
via disbursement to an Electronic Benefit Transfer card.
    (g) The Department shall publish monthly data on the
number of individuals who have received FRESH benefits and the
amount of FRESH benefits issued. The Department shall further
provide this data as part of its annual report to the General
Assembly. The report shall exclude any personally identifiable
information.
    (h) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, and
to the maximum extent permitted by federal law, for purposes
of determining eligibility and the amount of other assistance
under this Code, the Department of Human Services and local
governmental units administering assistance under this Code
shall exclude from consideration any FRESH benefits provided
under this Section.
    (i) The provisions of this Section are inoperative on and
after July 1, 2027.


                            Article 15.


    Section 15-5. The Civil Administrative Code of Illinois is
amended by changing Section 5-336 and by adding Section 5-123
as follows:


    (20 ILCS 5/5-123 new)
    Sec. 5-123. In the Department of Early Childhood. Two
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Assistant Secretaries of Early Childhood. Their initial terms
shall run from the date of appointment until January 18, 2027,
and   until   their   successors     have    been   appointed   and   have
qualified. Thereafter, their terms shall be as provided in
Section 5-610 of this Law.


      (20 ILCS 5/5-336)
      Sec. 5-336. In the Department of Early Childhood. For
terms beginning on or after July 1, 2024, the Secretary shall
receive an annual salary of $214,988 or as set by the Governor,
whichever is higher. On July 1, 2025, and on each July 1
thereafter, the Secretary shall receive an increase in salary
based on the cost of living adjustment as authorized by Senate
Joint Resolution 192 of the 86th General Assembly.
      Each   Assistant   Secretary   of     Early   Childhood   appointed
under Section 5-123 of this Article shall receive an annual
salary of $191,694. Starting January 18, 2027, each Assistant
Secretary of Early Childhood appointed under Section 5-123 of
this Article shall receive an annual salary of $197,850 or as
set by the Governor, whichever is higher. On July 1, 2027, and
on each July 1 thereafter, the Assistant Secretaries shall
receive an increase in salary based on a cost of living
adjustment as authorized by Senate Joint Resolution 192 of the
86th General Assembly.
(Source: P.A. 103-594, eff. 6-25-24.)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Section 15-10. The Illinois Public Aid Code is amended by
changing Sections 2-12, 2-12.5, 12-5, 12-10, 12-10.3, and
12-10.5 as follows:


    (305 ILCS 5/2-12) (from Ch. 23, par. 2-12)
    Sec. 2-12. "Illinois Department"; "Department". In this
Code, "Illinois Department" or "Department", when a particular
entity is not specified, means the following:
        (1) In the case of a function performed before July 1,
    1997    (the    effective     date    of   the   Department     of   Human
    Services Act), the term means the Department of Public
    Aid.
        (2) Except as provided in paragraph (2.5), in the case
    of a function to be performed on or after July 1, 1997
    under Article III, IV, VI, IX, or IXA, the term means the
    Department of Human Services as successor to the Illinois
    Department of Public Aid.
        (2.5) In the case of a function to be performed on or
    after    July    1,    2026   under   Sections    9A-11   and    9A-11.5
    9A-11-5, the term means the Department of Early Childhood.
        (3) In the case of a function to be performed on or
    after July 1, 1997 under Article V, V-A, V-B, V-C, V-D,
    V-E, X, XIV, or XV, the term means the Department of
    Healthcare       and    Family       Services    (formerly      Illinois
    Department of Public Aid).
        (4) In the case of a function to be performed on or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    after July 1, 1997 under Article I, II, VIIIA, XI, XII, or
    XIII, the term means the Department of Human Services
    (acting as successor to the Illinois Department of Public
    Aid) or the Department of Healthcare and Family Services
    (formerly Illinois Department of Public Aid) or both,
    according      to    whether    that    function,       in    the    specific
    context, has been allocated to the Department of Human
    Services       or   the   Department        of    Healthcare       and    Family
    Services (formerly Department of Public Aid) or both of
    those departments.
(Source: P.A. 103-594, eff. 6-25-24.)


    (305 ILCS 5/2-12.5)
    Sec.    2-12.5.      "Director    of        the    Illinois       Department";
"Director    of    the   Department";       "Director".          In    this    Code,
"Director    of    the   Illinois     Department",         "Director         of   the
Department", or "Director", when a particular official is not
specified, means the following:
        (1) In the case of a function performed before July 1,
    1997    (the    effective      date    of    the    Department       of    Human
    Services Act), the term means the Director of Public Aid.
        (2) Except as provided in paragraph (2.5), in the case
    of a function to be performed on or after July 1, 1997
    under Article III, IV, VI, IX, or IXA, the term means the
    Secretary of Human Services.
        (2.5) In the case of a function to be performed on or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    after    July   1,     2026      under   Sections     9A-11   and   9A-11.5
    9A-11-5, the term means the Secretary of Early Childhood.
        (3) In the case of a function to be performed on or
    after July 1, 1997 under Article V, V-A, V-B, V-C, V-D,
    V-E,    X,   XIV,     or   XV,    the    term   means   the   Director   of
    Healthcare      and    Family      Services       (formerly   Director   of
    Public Aid).
        (4) In the case of a function to be performed on or
    after July 1, 1997 under Article I, II, VIIIA, XI, XII, or
    XIII, the term means the Secretary of Human Services or
    the Director of Healthcare and Family Services (formerly
    Director of Public Aid) or both, according to whether that
    function, in the specific context, has been allocated to
    the Department of Human Services or the Department of
    Healthcare and Family Services (formerly Department of
    Public Aid) or both of those departments.
(Source: P.A. 103-594, eff. 6-25-24.)


    (305 ILCS 5/12-5) (from Ch. 23, par. 12-5)
    Sec. 12-5. Appropriations; uses; federal grants; report to
General Assembly. From the sums appropriated by the General
Assembly, the Illinois Department shall order for payment by
warrant from the State treasury Treasury grants for public aid
under Articles III, IV, and V, including grants for funeral
and burial expenses, and all costs of administration of the
Illinois    Department         and    the    County    Departments      relating
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


thereto. Moneys appropriated to the Illinois Department for
public aid under Article VI may be used, with the consent of
the Governor, to cooperate co-operate with federal, State, and
local agencies in the development of work projects designed to
provide suitable employment for persons receiving public aid
under Article VI. The Illinois Department, with the consent of
the Governor, may be the agent of the State for the receipt and
disbursement of federal funds or commodities for public aid
purposes under Article VI and for related purposes in which
the cooperation co-operation of the Illinois Department is
sought      by     the   federal     government,      and,      in     connection
therewith,        may    make    necessary       expenditures        from    moneys
appropriated for public aid under any Article of this Code and
for administration. The Illinois Department may make necessary
expenditures from monies appropriated to it for operations,
administration, and grants, including payment to the Health
Insurance Reserve Fund for group insurance costs at the rate
certified by the Department of Central Management Services.
    All      grants      received    by    the    Illinois     Department      for
programs funded by the Federal Social Services Block Grant
shall be deposited into in the Social Services Block Grant
Fund. All funds received into the Social Services Block Grant
Fund   as    reimbursement        for     expenditures   from        the    General
Revenue Fund shall be transferred to the General Revenue Fund.
All funds received into the Social Services Block Grant Fund
fund   for       reimbursement      for   expenditure    out    of     the   Local
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Initiative Fund shall be transferred into the Local Initiative
Fund.   Any     other   federal        funds   received        into    the    Social
Services Block Grant Fund shall be transferred to the DHS
Special Purposes Trust Fund. All federal funds received by the
Illinois      Department       as     reimbursement      for    Employment         and
Training    Programs      for       expenditures     made      by    the     Illinois
Department from grants, gifts, or legacies as provided in
Section 12-4.18 or made by an entity other than the Illinois
Department and all federal funds received from the Emergency
Contingency Fund for State Temporary Assistance for Needy
Families Programs established by the American Recovery and
Reinvestment      Act    of     2009     shall      be   deposited         into    the
Employment and Training Fund.
      During each State fiscal year, an amount not exceeding a
total of $68,800,000 of the federal funds received by the
Illinois Department under the provisions of Title IV-A of the
federal Social Security Act shall be deposited into the DCFS
Children's Services Fund.
      All federal funds, except those covered by the foregoing 3
paragraphs, received as reimbursement for expenditures from
the   General    Revenue       Fund    shall   be    deposited        into    in   the
General    Revenue      Fund    for     administrative         and    distributive
expenditures properly chargeable by federal law or regulation
to aid programs established under Articles III through XII and
Titles IV, XVI, XIX and XX of the Federal Social Security Act.
Any other federal funds received by the Illinois Department
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


under Sections 12-4.6, 12-4.18 and 12-4.19 that are required
by Section 12-10 of this Code to be paid into the DHS Special
Purposes Trust Fund shall be deposited into the DHS Special
Purposes Trust Fund. Any other federal funds received by the
Illinois Department pursuant to the Child Support Enforcement
Program established by Title IV-D of the Social Security Act
shall be deposited into in the Child Support Enforcement Trust
Fund as required under Section 12-10.2 or in the Child Support
Administrative Fund as required under Section 12-10.2a of this
Code.   Any   other    federal         funds   received   by   the   Illinois
Department for expenditures made under Title XIX of the Social
Security Act and Articles V and VI of this Code that are
required by Section 15-2 of this Code to be paid into the
County Provider Trust Fund shall be deposited into the County
Provider Trust Fund. Any other federal funds received by the
Illinois      Department         for     hospital     inpatient,     hospital
ambulatory     care,       and     disproportionate        share     hospital
expenditures made under Title XIX of the Social Security Act
and Article V of this Code that are required by Section 5A-8 of
this Code to be paid into the Hospital Provider Fund shall be
deposited into the Hospital Provider Fund. Any other federal
funds   received      by   the         Illinois   Department   for    medical
assistance program expenditures made under Title XIX of the
Social Security Act and Article V of this Code that are
required by Section 5B-8 of this Code to be paid into the
Long-Term Care Provider Fund shall be deposited into the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Long-Term Care Provider Fund. Any other federal funds received
by the Illinois Department for medical assistance program
expenditures made under Title XIX of the Social Security Act
and Article V of this Code that are required by Section 5C-7 of
this Code to be paid into the Care Provider Fund for Persons
with a Developmental Disability shall be deposited into the
Care    Provider       Fund     for   Persons   with     a     Developmental
Disability. Any other federal funds received by the Illinois
Department for trauma center adjustment payments that are
required by Section 5-5.03 of this Code and made under Title
XIX of the Social Security Act and Article V of this Code shall
be deposited into the Trauma Center Fund. Any other federal
funds received by the Illinois Department as reimbursement for
expenses for early intervention services paid from the Early
Intervention Services Revolving Fund shall be deposited into
that Fund.
      The   Illinois    Department     shall    report    to    the   General
Assembly at the end of each fiscal quarter the amount of all
funds received and paid into the Social Services Block Grant
Fund and the Local Initiative Fund and the expenditures and
transfers of such funds for services, programs and other
purposes authorized by law. Such report shall be filed with
the Speaker, Minority Leader and Clerk of the House, with the
President, Minority Leader and Secretary of the Senate, with
the    Chairmen    of     the     House   and    Senate      Appropriations
Committees, the House Human Resources Committee and the Senate
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Public    Health,     Welfare    and    Corrections      Committee,      or    the
successor standing Committees of each as provided by the rules
of the House and Senate, respectively, with the Commission on
Government Forecasting and Accountability and with the State
Government Report Distribution Center for the General Assembly
as is required under paragraph (t) of Section 7 of the State
Library Act shall be deemed sufficient to comply with this
Section.
(Source: P.A. 100-587, eff. 6-4-18; 100-863, eff. 8-14-18;
100-1148, eff. 12-10-18; 101-275, eff. 8-9-19.)


    (305 ILCS 5/12-10) (from Ch. 23, par. 12-10)
    Sec. 12-10. DHS Special Purposes Trust Fund; uses. The DHS
Special Purposes Trust Fund, to be held outside the State
treasury      Treasury    by    the    State    Treasurer     as   ex    officio
ex-officio custodian, shall consist of (1) any federal grants
received under Section 12-4.6 that are not required by Section
12-5 to be paid into the General Revenue Fund or transferred
into    the   Local   Initiative       Fund    under    Section    12-10.1      or
deposited into in the Employment and Training Fund under
Section 12-10.3; (2) grants, gifts or legacies of moneys or
securities received under Section 12-4.18; (3) grants received
under    Section    12-4.19;     and    (4)    funds    for   child     care   and
development      services       that    are    not     deposited      into     the
Employment      and      Training      Fund     under     Section       12-10.3.
Disbursements from this Fund shall be only for the purposes
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


authorized by the aforementioned Sections.
    Disbursements from this Fund shall be by warrants drawn by
the State Comptroller on receipt of vouchers duly executed and
certified   by   the    Illinois      Department    of    Human   Services,
including payment to the Health Insurance Reserve Fund for
group insurance costs at the rate certified by the Department
of Central Management Services.
    In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for by law, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer from the DHS Special Purposes Trust
Fund into the Governor's Grant Fund such amounts as may be
directed in writing by the Secretary of Human Services.
    In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for by law, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer from the DHS Special Purposes Trust
Fund into the Employment and Training fund such amounts as may
be directed in writing by the Secretary of Human Services.
    In addition to any other transfers that may be provided
for by law, beginning on the effective date of the changes made
to this Section by this amendatory Act of the 104th General
Assembly and until June 30, 2027, the State Comptroller shall
direct and the State Treasurer shall transfer from the DHS
Special   Purposes     Trust   Fund    into   the   DEC    Federal   Agency
Services Fund such amounts as may be directed in writing by the
Secretary of Human Services.
(Source: P.A. 102-16, eff. 6-17-21; 103-363, eff. 7-28-23.)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b



      (305 ILCS 5/12-10.3) (from Ch. 23, par. 12-10.3)
      Sec. 12-10.3. Employment and Training Fund; uses.
      (a) The Employment and Training Fund is hereby created in
the State treasury Treasury for the purpose of receiving and
disbursing moneys in accordance with the provisions of Title
IV-A of the federal Social Security Act; the Food Stamp Act,
Title 7 of the United States Code; and related rules and
regulations governing the use of those moneys for the purposes
of    providing   employment   and   training   services,   supportive
services, cash assistance payments, short-term non-recurrent
payments, and other related social services. Beginning in
fiscal year 2022, the Employment and Training Fund may receive
revenues from State, federal, and private sources related to
child care services and programs.
      (b) All federal funds received by the Illinois Department
as reimbursement for expenditures for employment and training
programs made by the Illinois Department from grants, gifts,
or legacies as provided in Section 12-4.18 or by an entity
other than the Department, and all federal funds received from
the Emergency Contingency Fund for State Temporary Assistance
for    Needy   Families   Programs   established   by   the   American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, shall be deposited into
the Employment and Training Fund.
      (c) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this Section,
the Employment and Training Fund shall be administered by the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Illinois Department, and the Illinois Department may make
payments from the Employment and Training Fund to clients or
to   public     and   private    entities   on   behalf    of   clients       for
employment and training services, supportive services, cash
assistance payments, short-term non-recurrent payments, child
care services and child care related programs, and other
related     social     services     consistent      with     the       purposes
authorized under this Code.
     (d) (Blank).
     (e) The Illinois Department shall execute a written grant
agreement when purchasing employment and training services
from   entities       qualified    to   provide     services       under      the
programs.
     (f)   In    addition   to    any   other    transfers      that    may    be
provided for by law, at the direction of the Secretary of Human
Services, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer such amounts as may be determined by
the Secretary to be necessary for the costs of child care and
related program costs from the Employment and Training Fund to
the Child Care Assistance Fund.
(Source: P.A. 102-16, eff. 6-17-21.)


     (305 ILCS 5/12-10.5)
     Sec. 12-10.5. Medical Special Purposes Trust Fund.
     (a) The Medical Special Purposes Trust Fund ("the Fund")
is created. Any grant, gift, donation, or legacy of money or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


securities      that       the   Department     of    Healthcare       and     Family
Services is authorized to receive under Section 12-4.18 or
Section 12-4.19 or any monies from any other source, and that
are dedicated for functions connected with the administration
of any medical program administered by the Department, shall
be deposited into the Fund. All federal moneys received by the
Department as reimbursement for disbursements authorized to be
made from the Fund shall also be deposited into the Fund. In
addition,       federal      moneys     received      on    account       of   State
expenditures made in connection with obtaining compliance with
the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act (HIPAA), as well as federal Rural Health Transformation
Program collaborative agreement funds awarded to the State,
shall be deposited into the Fund.
    (b)    No    moneys      received    from    a   service      provider      or   a
governmental or private entity that is enrolled with the
Department      as     a    provider     of    medical      services      shall      be
deposited into the Fund.
    (c)    Disbursements          may   be    made   from   the    Fund      for   the
purposes     connected           with   the    grants,      gifts,     donations,
legacies, or other monies deposited into the Fund, including,
but not limited to, grant programs, medical quality assessment
projects, eligibility population studies, medical information
systems evaluations, and other administrative functions that
assist the Department in fulfilling its health care mission
under any medical program administered by the Department.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      (d) At the direction of the Director of Healthcare and
Family Services, the State Comptroller shall direct and the
State Treasurer shall transfer from the Fund to the Healthcare
Provider      Relief    Fund   such      amounts    as    are   necessary      to
reimburse operational expenses paid in support of the Rural
Health Transformation Program.
(Source: P.A. 97-48, eff. 6-28-11; 97-689, eff. 6-14-12.)


      Section 15-15. The Department of Early Childhood Act is
amended by changing Sections 1-20, 10-120, 20-30, and 20-45
and by adding Article 50 as follows:


      (325 ILCS 3/1-20)
      Sec. 1-20. Department; Secretary; organization.
      (a) The Department of Early Childhood is created and shall
begin operation on July 1, 2024.
      (b) The head officer of the Department is the Secretary.
The Secretary shall be appointed by the Governor, with the
advice and consent of the Senate. The initial term of the
Secretary shall run from the date of appointment until January
18,   2027,    and     until   a    successor   has      been   appointed     and
qualified.     Thereafter,         the   Secretary's     term    shall   be    as
provided in Section 5-610 of the Civil Administrative Code of
Illinois. The Department may employ or retain other persons to
assist in the discharge of its functions, subject to the
Personnel Code.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (c) The Governor may, with the advice and consent of the
Senate, appoint 2 an appropriate number of persons to serve as
Assistant Secretaries as provided in the Civil Administrative
Code of Illinois to head the major programmatic divisions of
the Department. Assistant Secretaries shall not be subject to
the Personnel Code.
    (d)     The    Secretary        shall     create      divisions     and
administrative units within the Department and shall assign
functions, powers, duties, and personnel as may now or in the
future be required by State or federal law. The Secretary may
create other divisions and administrative units and may assign
other functions, powers, duties, and personnel as may be
necessary   or    desirable    to    carry    out   the     functions   and
responsibilities vested by law in the Department.
(Source: P.A. 103-594, eff. 6-25-24.)


    (325 ILCS 3/10-120)
    Sec. 10-120. Early Intervention Services Revolving Fund.
The Early Intervention Services Revolving Fund (formerly the
Early Intervention Services Revolving Fund), created by Public
Act 89-106 and continued under Public Act 103-594, shall be
held as a trust fund by the State Treasurer as ex officio
custodian   and    used   lead      agency.   The   Early     Intervention
Services Revolving Fund shall be used to the extent determined
necessary by the lead agency to pay for early intervention
services.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Local Accounts for such purposes may be established by the
lead agency.
    The lead agency or its designee shall make expenditures
Expenditures from the Early Intervention Services Revolving
Fund shall be made in accordance with applicable program
provisions.    Expenditures       and    shall    be    limited     to    those
purposes    and    amounts      specified   under      applicable        program
guidelines. There shall be deposited into Funding of the Fund
shall be from family fees, insurance company payments, federal
financial     participation        received      as    reimbursement        for
expenditures from the Fund, and appropriations made to the
State agencies involved in the payment for early intervention
services under this Act.
    Disbursements        from    the     Early   Intervention        Services
Revolving Fund shall be made as determined by the lead agency
or its designee. Funds in the Early Intervention Services
Revolving   Fund    or   the     local   accounts      created    under     this
Section that are not immediately required for expenditure may
be invested in certificates of deposit or other interest
bearing accounts. Any interest earned on amounts in the Fund
shall be deposited into in the Early Intervention Services
Revolving Fund.
(Source: P.A. 103-594, eff. 6-25-24.)


    (325 ILCS 3/20-30)
    Sec. 20-30. Off-Hours Child Care Program.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (a) Legislative intent. The General Assembly finds that:
            (1)    Finding       child       care    can    be    a     challenge      for
    firefighters, paramedics, police officers, nurses, and
    other third shift workers across the State who often work
    non-typical work hours. This can impact home life, school,
    bedtime routines, job safety, and the mental health of
    some of our most critical front line workers and their
    families.
            (2)    There     is     a    need       for    increased      options      for
    off-hours child care in the State.
            (3) Illinois has a vested interest in ensuring that
    our first responders and working families can provide
    their children with appropriate care during off hours to
    improve the morale of existing first responders and to
    improve recruitment into the future.
    (b) As used in this Section, "first responders" means
emergency         medical    services         personnel      as       defined    in    the
Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Systems Act, firefighters,
law enforcement officers, and, as determined by the Department
of Early Childhood on and after July 1, 2026, any other workers
who,   on    account        of   their       work    schedule,    need     child       care
outside of the hours when licensed child care facilities
typically operate.
    (c)     Beginning        July       1,   2026,    the    Department         of    Early
Childhood shall administer the Off-Hours Child Care Program to
help first responders and other workers identify and access
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


off-hours,    night,    or    sleep   time     child    care,   subject      to
appropriation. Services funded under the program must address
the child care needs of first responders. Funding provided
under the program may also be used to cover any capital and
operating expenses related to the provision of off-hours,
night, or sleep time child care for first responders. Funding
awarded    under      this    Section    shall     be     funded        through
appropriations from the Off-Hours Child Care Program Fund
created under Public Act 102-912. The Department of Early
Childhood may adopt any rules necessary to implement the
program.
    (d) All costs associated with the Off-Hours Child Care
Program shall be paid from the Off-Hours Child Care Program
Fund, a special fund that was created under Section 1-75 of the
Department of Human Services Act (repealed) and was continued
under Public Act 103-594. The Department shall deposit any
moneys, whether public or private, received for the purposes
of this Section in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund may be expended
for the purposes of this Section and for no other purposes. All
interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall be retained in the
Fund.
(Source: P.A. 103-594, eff. 6-25-24.)


    (325 ILCS 3/20-45)
    Sec.     20-45.    Home   child     care    demonstration       project;
conversion     and    renovation      grants;    Department        of    Early
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Childhood.
    (a) The General Assembly finds that the demand for quality
child care far outweighs the number of safe, quality spaces
for our children. The purpose of this Section is to increase
the number of child care providers by:
          (1)    developing     a     demonstration         project       to   train
    individuals to become home child care providers who are
    able    to    establish     and    operate       their    own     child     care
    facility; and
          (2) providing grants to convert and renovate existing
    facilities.
    (b) On and after July 1, 2026, the Department of Early
Childhood       may    from   appropriations         from     the    Child      Care
Assistance       Fund     Development        Block     Grant        establish      a
demonstration project to train individuals to become home
child care providers who are able to establish and operate
their own home-based child care facilities. On and after July
1, 2026, the Department of Early Childhood is authorized to
use appropriations funds for this purpose from the child care
and development funds deposited into the DHS Special Purposes
Trust Fund as described in Section 12-10 of the Illinois
Public Aid Code or deposited into the Child Care Assistance
Fund Employment and Training Fund as described in Section
12-10.3    of    the    Illinois    Public    Aid    Code.     As    an    economic
development       program,    the     project's       focus     is    to       foster
individual       self-sufficiency        through       an      entrepreneurial
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


approach by the creation of new jobs and opening of new small
home-based child care businesses. The demonstration project
shall involve coordination among State and county governments
and the private sector, including, but not limited to: the
community       college       system,    the   Departments       of     Labor      and
Commerce        and    Economic     Opportunity,        the   State     Board       of
Education,       large    and    small   private      businesses,       non-profit
programs, unions, and child care providers in the State.
    (c) On and after July 1, 2026, the Department of Early
Childhood       may     from     appropriations       from    the     Child       Care
Assistance Fund Development Block Grant provide grants to
family child care providers and center based programs to
convert    and        renovate    existing     facilities,      to    the        extent
permitted by federal law, so additional family child care
homes     and     child    care     centers     can     be    located       in    such
facilities.
          (1) Applications for            grants shall be            made    to    the
    Department and shall contain information as the Department
    shall       require    by    rule.   Every    applicant      shall       provide
    assurance to the Department that:
                 (A) the facility to be renovated or improved shall
          be used as family child care home or child care center
          for a continuous period of at least 5 years;
                 (B)    any    family child      care    home   or    child       care
          center program located in a renovated or improved
          facility shall be licensed by the Department;
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


              (C)    the   program    shall      comply   with    applicable
        federal      and   State    laws    prohibiting        discrimination
        against      any   person    on    the    basis   of    race,    color,
        national origin, religion, creed, or sex;
              (D) the grant shall not be used for purposes of
        entertainment or perquisites;
              (E) the applicant shall comply with any other
        requirement the Department may prescribe to ensure
        adherence to applicable federal, State, and county
        laws;
              (F) all renovations and improvements undertaken
        with funds received under this Section shall comply
        with all applicable State and county statutes and
        ordinances     including      applicable building codes            and
        structural requirements of the Department; and
              (G)    the   applicant       shall     indemnify     and     save
        harmless     the   State     and   its     officers,     agents,   and
        employees from and against any and all claims arising
        out     of    or   resulting       from     the    renovation      and
        improvements made with funds provided by this Section,
        and, upon request of the Department, the applicant
        shall procure sufficient insurance to provide that
        indemnification.
        (2) To receive a grant under this Section to convert
    an existing facility into a family child care home or
    child care center facility, the applicant shall:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


                (A) agree to make available to the Department all
          records it may have relating to the operation of any
          family child care home and child care center facility,
          and to allow State agencies to monitor its compliance
          with the purpose of this Section;
                (B) agree that, if the facility is to be altered or
          improved, or is to be used by other groups, moneys
          appropriated         by   this     Section    shall     be    used      for
          renovating      or    improving      the    facility       only    to   the
          proportionate extent that the floor space will be used
          by the child care program; and
                (C)   establish,        to     the     satisfaction         of    the
          Department, that sufficient funds are available for
          the effective use of the facility for the purpose for
          which it is being renovated or improved.
          (3)    In    selecting        applicants        for     funding,        the
    Department shall make every effort to ensure that family
    child   care      home     or   child    care    center     facilities        are
    equitably distributed throughout the State according to
    demographic       need.     The    Department       shall    give       priority
    consideration to rural/Downstate areas of the State that
    are   currently       experiencing        a   shortage      of     child      care
    services.
          (4) In considering applications for grants to renovate
    or improve an existing facility used for the operations of
    a   family    child      care     home   or   child    care      center,      the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Department     shall   give   preference   to   applications    to
    renovate facilities most in need of repair to address
    safety   and   habitability    concerns.   No   grant   shall   be
    disbursed unless an agreement is entered into between the
    applicant and the State, by and through the Department.
    The agreement shall include the assurances and conditions
    required by this Section and any other terms which the
    Department may require.
(Source: P.A. 103-594, eff. 6-25-24.)


    (325 ILCS 3/Art. 50 heading new)
                   ARTICLE 50. DEPARTMENT FUNDS


    (325 ILCS 3/50-5 new)
    Sec. 50-5. DEC Special Projects Fund.
    (a) The DEC Special Projects Fund is created as a trust
fund to be held outside the State treasury, with the State
Treasurer as ex officio custodian. The fund shall consist of
moneys deposited under subsection (b).
    (b) The Department may receive transfers, gifts, grants,
or donations from any source, public or private, in the form of
funds, services, equipment, supplies, or materials. Any funds
received under this Section shall be deposited into the DEC
Special Projects Fund, unless deposit into a different fund is
otherwise mandated, and shall be used in accordance with the
requirements of the financial assistance, gift, grant, or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


donation for purposes related to programs operated by the
Department and the duties of the Department.


    (325 ILCS 3/50-10 new)
    Sec. 50-10. DEC Federal Agency Services Fund.
    (a) The DEC Federal Agency Services Fund is created as a
federal trust fund to be held outside the State treasury, with
the State Treasurer as ex officio custodian. The Department
may accept and deposit into the Fund moneys received from
federal   grants   or   awards   not   otherwise   required   to   be
deposited into the Child Care Assistance Fund.
    (b) Moneys in the DEC Federal Agency Services Fund shall
be used, subject to appropriation by the General Assembly, for
the specific purposes established by the terms and conditions
of federal awards, including paying the costs of grants,
contracts, and administrative expenses of the Department. Any
unexpended moneys shall be returned in accordance with the
terms of any applicable grant or award.


    (325 ILCS 3/50-15 new)
    Sec. 50-15. Child Care Assistance Fund.
    (a) The Child Care Assistance Fund is hereby created as a
trust fund to be held outside the State treasury, with the
State Treasurer as ex officio custodian, for the purpose of
receiving and disbursing moneys from federal sources related
to child care services and programs.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      (b) The Child Care Assistance Fund shall be administered
by the Department of Early Childhood. Moneys in the Fund may be
used to make payments to clients, or to public or private
entities on behalf of clients, for child care services and
child care related programs.
      (c) The Child Care Assistance Fund may receive transfers
from the Employment and Training Fund for any related costs.
      (d)   In   addition    to    any    other     transfers     that   may   be
provided for by law, the State Comptroller shall direct and
the   State      Treasurer   shall       transfer    from   the    Child   Care
Assistance Fund into the Employment and Training Fund such
amounts as may be directed in writing by the Secretary of Human
Services.


      (325 ILCS 3/50-20 new)
      Sec. 50-20. DEC Federal Indirect Cost Fund.
      (a) The DEC Federal Indirect Cost Fund is hereby created
as a federal trust fund to be held outside the State treasury,
with the State Treasurer as ex officio custodian. Moneys in
the Fund shall be expended, subject to appropriation, only for
administrative or operational costs as authorized by law and
under the terms of any applicable federal grant, award, or
assistance.
      (b) The Department may apply for, accept, receive, expend,
and   administer     on   behalf     of   the     State   any   indirect   cost
reimbursements and funds from federal grants, awards, or other
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


assistance. Any federal indirect cost reimbursements and funds
received   by   the        Department       under     this    Section    shall    be
deposited into the DEC Federal Indirect Cost Fund.


    Section 50-25. The Smart Start Illinois Act is amended by
changing Section 95-10 as follows:


    (325 ILCS 85/95-10)
    Sec. 95-10. Smart Start Child Care Workforce Compensation
Program.
    (a) The Department of Human Services shall create and
establish the Smart Start Child Care Workforce Compensation
Program. The purposes purpose of the Smart Start Child Care
Workforce Compensation Program are: is
        (1) to invest in early childhood education and care
    service     providers,          including,        but     not   limited      to,
    providers    participating             in   the   Child     Care    Assistance
    Program;
        (2)     to    expand        the    supply     of     high-quality     early
    childhood education and care; and
        (3) to create a strong and stable early childhood
    education        and     care     system        with     attractive     wages,
    high-quality services, and affordable costs; and . (b) The
    purpose     of     the     Smart        Start     Child     Care     Workforce
    Compensation Program is
        (4)     to    stabilize           community-based      early     childhood
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    education and care service providers, raise the wages of
    early        childhood       educators,          and    support      quality
    enhancements         that    can    position       service   providers       to
    participate      in    other       public   funding     streams,     such    as
    Preschool for All, in order to further enhance and expand
    quality service delivery.
    (b) (c) Subject to appropriation, the Department of Human
Services shall implement the Smart Start Child Care Workforce
Compensation Program for eligible licensed day care centers,
licensed day care homes, and licensed group day care homes by
October     1,   2024,     or    as    soon     as   practicable,       following
completion of a planning and transition year. By October 1,
2025, or as soon as practicable, and for each year thereafter,
subject to appropriation, the Department of Human Services
shall continue to operate the Smart Start Child Care Workforce
Compensation      Program       annually      with   all   licensed     day    care
centers, licensed day care homes, and licensed group day care
homes that meet eligibility requirements. Beginning July 1,
2026,   subject     to    appropriation,         the    Department      of    Early
Childhood shall operate the Smart Start Child Care Workforce
Compensation      Program       for    all    licensed     day   care    centers,
licensed day care homes, and licensed group day care homes
that meet eligibility requirements. The Smart Start Child Care
Workforce Compensation Program shall operate separately from
and shall not supplant the Child Care Assistance Program as
provided for in Section 9A-11 of the Illinois Public Aid Code.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      (c) (d) The Department of Human Services shall adopt
administrative          rules       by    October        1,     2024       to     facilitate
administration          of    the    Smart       Start        Child        Care    Workforce
Compensation        Program,         including,          but         not     limited       to,
provisions        for    program         eligibility,          the     application         and
funding calculation process, eligible expenses, required wage
floors, and requirements for financial and personnel reporting
and     monitoring           requirements.          Eligibility              and        funding
provisions shall be based on appropriation and a current model
of the cost to provide child care services by a licensed child
care center or licensed family child care home. After July 1,
2026,       the    Department            of     Early         Childhood           may    adopt
administrative rules pursuant to this subsection.
(Source: P.A. 103-8, eff. 6-7-23; 103-605, eff. 7-1-24.)


                                     Article 20.


      Section 20-5. The Budget Stabilization Act is amended by
changing Section 25 as follows:


      (30 ILCS 122/25)
      (Text of Section WITH the changes made by P.A. 98-599,
which has been held unconstitutional)
      Sec. 25. Transfers from the Pension Stabilization Fund.
      (a)    As   used       in   this        Section,    "designated             retirement
systems" means:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


          (1)     the     State      Employees'           Retirement       System    of
    Illinois;
          (2) the Teachers' Retirement System of the State of
    Illinois;
          (3) the State Universities Retirement System;
          (4) the Judges Retirement System of Illinois; and
          (5) the General Assembly Retirement System.
    (b)    As    soon     as   may     be    practical       after   any    money    is
deposited       into    the    Pension       Stabilization        Fund,    the   State
Comptroller shall apportion the deposited amount among the
designated retirement systems and the State Comptroller and
the State Treasurer shall pay the apportioned amounts to the
designated retirement systems. The amount deposited shall be
apportioned among the designated retirement systems in the
same proportion as their respective portions of the total
actuarial       reserve    deficiency         of    the    designated      retirement
systems, as most recently determined by the Governor's Office
of Management and Budget. Amounts received by a designated
retirement system under this Section shall be used for funding
the unfunded liabilities of the retirement system. Payments
under     this     Section       are        authorized       by    the     continuing
appropriation under Section 1.7 of the State Pension Funds
Continuing Appropriation Act.
    (c)     At    the     request       of    the     State       Comptroller,      the
Governor's Office of Management and Budget shall determine the
individual and total actuarial reserve deficiencies of the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


designated      retirement        systems.     For        this      purpose,     the
Governor's Office of Management and Budget shall consider the
latest available audit and actuarial reports of each of the
retirement systems and the relevant reports and statistics of
the Public Pension Division of the Department of Insurance.
    (d) Payments to the designated retirement systems under
this Section shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any
State   contributions          required   under     Section      2-124,     14-131,
15-155, 16-158, or 18-131 of the Illinois Pension Code.
    Payments to the designated retirement systems under this
Section received after the effective date of this amendatory
Act of the 98th General Assembly, and any investment earnings
attributable     to     such    payments,    do     not     reduce    and   do   not
constitute     payment     of    any     portion    of    the    required      State
contribution under Article 2, 14, 15, 16, or 18 of the Illinois
Pension Code in the current fiscal year. Such amounts shall
not reduce, and shall not be included in the calculation of,
the required State contribution under Article 2, 14, 15, 16,
or 18 of the Illinois Pension Code in any future fiscal year,
until   the    designated        retirement        system     has    reached     the
targeted      funding    ratio      as    prescribed        by   law    for      that
retirement system. Such payments may be invested in the same
manner as other assets of the designated retirement system and
shall be used in the calculation of the system's funding ratio
for the purposes of this Section and Section 20 of this Act.
Payments under this Section may be used for any associated
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


administrative costs.
(Source: P.A. 98-599, eff. 6-1-14.)


      (Text of Section WITHOUT the changes made by P.A. 98-599,
which has been held unconstitutional)
      Sec. 25. Transfers from the Pension Stabilization Fund.
      (a)   As     used      in    this    Section,      "designated        retirement
systems" means:
            (1)       the    State      Employees'       Retirement        System     of
      Illinois;
            (2) the Teachers' Retirement System of the State of
      Illinois;
            (3) the State Universities Retirement System;
            (4) the Judges Retirement System of Illinois; and
            (5) the General Assembly Retirement System.
      (b)   As    soon      as    may     be    practical   after    any     money    is
deposited or transferred into the Pension Stabilization Fund,
the   State       Comptroller        shall      apportion     that   the     deposited
amount among the designated retirement systems and the State
Comptroller and the State Treasurer shall pay the apportioned
amounts     to     the      designated         retirement   systems.       The   amount
deposited        or    transferred         shall    be   apportioned        among    the
designated retirement systems in the same proportion as their
respective portions of the total actuarial reserve deficiency
of    the    designated           retirement       systems,    as    most     recently
determined by the Governor's Office of Management and Budget.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Amounts received by a designated retirement system under this
Section shall be used for funding the unfunded liabilities of
the     retirement     system.    Payments      under     this    Section   are
authorized by the continuing appropriation under Section 1.7
of the State Pension Funds Continuing Appropriation Act.
      (c)   At   the    request    of   the     State     Comptroller,      the
Governor's Office of Management and Budget shall determine the
individual and total actuarial reserve deficiencies of the
designated       retirement      systems.     For       this     purpose,   the
Governor's Office of Management and Budget shall consider the
latest available audit and actuarial reports of each of the
retirement systems and the relevant reports and statistics of
the Public Pension Division of the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation.
      (d) Payments to the designated retirement systems under
this Section shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any
State    contributions     required     under    Section       2-124,   14-131,
15-155, 16-158, or 18-131 of the Illinois Pension Code.
(Source: P.A. 94-839, eff. 6-6-06.)


      Section 20-10. The Illinois Income Tax Act is amended by
changing Section 901 as follows:


      (35 ILCS 5/901)
      Sec. 901. Collection authority.
      (a) In general. The Department shall collect the taxes
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


imposed by this Act. The Department shall collect certified
past due child support amounts under Section 2505-650 of the
Department of Revenue Law of the Civil Administrative Code of
Illinois. Except as provided in subsections (b), (c), (e),
(f), (g), and (h) of this Section, money collected pursuant to
subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act shall be
paid into the General Revenue Fund in the State treasury;
money collected pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of Section
201 of this Act shall be paid into the Personal Property Tax
Replacement     Fund,   a   special   fund   in   the   State   treasury
Treasury; and money collected under Section 2505-650 of the
Department of Revenue Law of the Civil Administrative Code of
Illinois shall be paid into the Child Support Enforcement
Trust   Fund,    a   special   fund   outside     the   State   treasury
Treasury, or to the State Disbursement Unit established under
Section 10-26 of the Illinois Public Aid Code, as directed by
the Department of Healthcare and Family Services.
    (b) Local Government Distributive Fund. Beginning August
1, 2017 and continuing through July 31, 2022, the Treasurer
shall transfer each month from the General Revenue Fund to the
Local Government Distributive Fund an amount equal to the sum
of: (i) 6.06% (10% of the ratio of the 3% individual income tax
rate prior to 2011 to the 4.95% individual income tax rate
after July 1, 2017) of the net revenue realized from the tax
imposed by subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act
upon individuals, trusts, and estates during the preceding
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


month; (ii) 6.85% (10% of the ratio of the 4.8% corporate
income tax rate prior to 2011 to the 7% corporate income tax
rate after July 1, 2017) of the net revenue realized from the
tax imposed by subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this
Act upon corporations during the preceding month; and (iii)
beginning February 1, 2022, 6.06% of the net revenue realized
from the tax imposed by subsection (p) of Section 201 of this
Act upon electing pass-through entities. Beginning August 1,
2022 and continuing through July 31, 2023, the Treasurer shall
transfer each month from the General Revenue Fund to the Local
Government Distributive Fund an amount equal to the sum of:
(i) 6.16% of the net revenue realized from the tax imposed by
subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act upon
individuals, trusts, and estates during the preceding month;
(ii) 6.85% of the net revenue realized from the tax imposed by
subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act upon
corporations during the preceding month; and (iii) 6.16% of
the net revenue realized from the tax imposed by subsection
(p) of Section 201 of this Act upon electing pass-through
entities.   Beginning   August   1,   2023,   the   Treasurer   shall
transfer each month from the General Revenue Fund to the Local
Government Distributive Fund an amount equal to the sum of:
(i) 6.47% of the net revenue realized from the tax imposed by
subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act upon
individuals, trusts, and estates during the preceding month;
(ii) 6.85% of the net revenue realized from the tax imposed by
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act upon
corporations during the preceding month; and (iii) 6.47% of
the net revenue realized from the tax imposed by subsection
(p) of Section 201 of this Act upon electing pass-through
entities. Net revenue realized for a month shall be defined as
the revenue from the tax imposed by subsections (a) and (b) of
Section 201 of this Act which is deposited into the General
Revenue Fund, the Education Assistance Fund, the Income Tax
Surcharge Local Government Distributive Fund, the Fund for the
Advancement of Education, and the Commitment to Human Services
Fund during the month minus the amount paid out of the General
Revenue Fund in State warrants during that same month as
refunds to taxpayers for overpayment of liability under the
tax imposed by subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this
Act.
    Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
beginning on July 6, 2017 (the effective date of Public Act
100-23), those amounts required under this subsection (b) to
be transferred by the Treasurer into the Local Government
Distributive Fund from the General Revenue Fund shall be
directly deposited into the Local Government Distributive Fund
as the revenue is realized from the tax imposed by subsections
(a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act.
    (c) Deposits Into Income Tax Refund Fund.
        (1) Beginning on January 1, 1989 and thereafter, the
    Department    shall   deposit   a   percentage   of   the   amounts
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    collected pursuant to subsections (a) and (b)(1), (2), and
    (3) of Section 201 of this Act into a fund in the State
    treasury known as the Income Tax Refund Fund. Beginning
    with State fiscal year 1990 and for each fiscal year
    thereafter, the percentage deposited into the Income Tax
    Refund Fund during a fiscal year shall be the Annual
    Percentage. For fiscal year 2011, the Annual Percentage
    shall   be    8.75%.    For   fiscal   year   2012,   the   Annual
    Percentage shall be 8.75%. For fiscal year 2013, the
    Annual Percentage shall be 9.75%. For fiscal year 2014,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 9.5%. For fiscal year 2015,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 10%. For fiscal year 2018,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 9.8%. For fiscal year 2019,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 9.7%. For fiscal year 2020,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 9.5%. For fiscal year 2021,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 9%. For fiscal year 2022,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 9.25%. For fiscal year
    2023, the Annual Percentage shall be 9.25%. For fiscal
    year 2024, the Annual Percentage shall be             9.15%. For
    fiscal year 2025, the Annual Percentage shall be 9.15%.
    For fiscal year        2026, the Annual Percentage shall be
    9.15%. For all other fiscal years, the Annual Percentage
    shall be calculated as a fraction, the numerator of which
    shall be the amount of refunds approved for payment by the
    Department during the preceding fiscal year as a result of
    overpayment of tax liability under subsections (a) and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (b)(1), (2), and (3) of Section 201 of this Act plus the
    amount of such refunds remaining approved but unpaid at
    the end of the preceding fiscal year, minus the amounts
    transferred into          the Income Tax Refund Fund                 from the
    Tobacco Settlement Recovery Fund, and the denominator of
    which    shall   be      the     amounts    which    will     be   collected
    pursuant to subsections (a) and (b)(1), (2), and (3) of
    Section 201 of this Act during the preceding fiscal year;
    except    that     in     State    fiscal     year    2002,    the     Annual
    Percentage shall in no event exceed 7.6%. The Director of
    Revenue    shall        certify    the     Annual    Percentage       to   the
    Comptroller on the last business day of the fiscal year
    immediately preceding the fiscal year for which it is to
    be effective.
        (2) Beginning on January 1, 1989 and thereafter, the
    Department     shall      deposit    a     percentage   of     the    amounts
    collected pursuant to subsections (a) and (b)(6), (7), and
    (8), (c) and (d) of Section 201 of this Act into a fund in
    the State treasury known as the Income Tax Refund Fund.
    Beginning with State fiscal year 1990 and for each fiscal
    year thereafter, the percentage deposited into the Income
    Tax Refund Fund during a fiscal year shall be the Annual
    Percentage. For fiscal year 2011, the Annual Percentage
    shall     be   17.5%.      For    fiscal     year    2012,     the     Annual
    Percentage shall be 17.5%. For fiscal year 2013, the
    Annual Percentage shall be 14%. For fiscal year 2014, the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Annual Percentage shall be 13.4%. For fiscal year 2015,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 14%. For fiscal year 2018,
    the Annual Percentage shall be 17.5%. For fiscal year
    2019, the Annual Percentage shall be 15.5%. For fiscal
    year 2020, the Annual Percentage shall be 14.25%. For
    fiscal year 2021, the Annual Percentage shall be 14%. For
    fiscal year 2022, the Annual Percentage shall be 15%. For
    fiscal year 2023, the Annual Percentage shall be 14.5%.
    For fiscal year 2024, the Annual Percentage shall be 14%.
    For fiscal year 2025, the Annual Percentage shall be 14%.
    For fiscal year 2026, the Annual Percentage shall be 14%.
    For all other fiscal years, the Annual Percentage shall be
    calculated as a fraction, the numerator of which shall be
    the   amount   of    refunds   approved    for   payment   by   the
    Department during the preceding fiscal year as a result of
    overpayment of tax liability under subsections (a) and
    (b)(6), (7), and (8), (c) and (d) of Section 201 of this
    Act plus the amount of such refunds remaining approved but
    unpaid at the end of the preceding fiscal year, and the
    denominator of which shall be the amounts which will be
    collected pursuant to subsections (a) and (b)(6), (7), and
    (8), (c) and (d) of Section 201 of this Act during the
    preceding fiscal year; except that in State fiscal year
    2002, the Annual Percentage shall in no event exceed 23%.
    The   Director      of   Revenue   shall   certify   the    Annual
    Percentage to the Comptroller on the last business day of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year for
    which it is to be effective.
         (3) The Comptroller shall order transferred and the
    Treasurer     shall     transfer    from    the   Tobacco    Settlement
    Recovery      Fund    to   the     Income   Tax     Refund    Fund     (i)
    $35,000,000 in January, 2001, (ii) $35,000,000 in January,
    2002, and (iii) $35,000,000 in January, 2003.
    (d) Expenditures from Income Tax Refund Fund.
         (1) Beginning January 1, 1989, money in the Income Tax
    Refund Fund shall be expended exclusively for the purpose
    of   paying    refunds     resulting      from    overpayment     of   tax
    liability under Section 201 of this Act and for making
    transfers pursuant to this subsection (d), except that in
    State fiscal years 2022 and 2023, moneys in the Income Tax
    Refund Fund shall also be used to pay one-time rebate
    payments as provided under Sections 208.5 and 212.1.
         (2)   The     Director   shall      order    payment    of   refunds
    resulting from overpayment of tax liability under Section
    201 of this Act from the Income Tax Refund Fund only to the
    extent that amounts collected pursuant to Section 201 of
    this Act and transfers pursuant to this subsection (d) and
    item   (3)    of     subsection    (c)   have     been   deposited     and
    retained in the Fund.
         (3) As soon as possible after the end of each fiscal
    year, the Director shall order transferred and the State
    Treasurer and State Comptroller shall transfer from the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Income   Tax     Refund    Fund    to   the    Personal       Property   Tax
    Replacement Fund an amount, certified by the Director to
    the   Comptroller,        equal    to   the    excess    of    the    amount
    collected pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of Section
    201 of this Act deposited into the Income Tax Refund Fund
    during    the    fiscal     year    over      the   amount     of    refunds
    resulting       from   overpayment       of     tax     liability     under
    subsections (c) and (d) of Section 201 of this Act paid
    from the Income Tax Refund Fund during the fiscal year.
          (4) As soon as possible after the end of each fiscal
    year, the Director shall order transferred and the State
    Treasurer and State Comptroller shall transfer from the
    Personal Property Tax Replacement Fund to the Income Tax
    Refund Fund an amount, certified by the Director to the
    Comptroller, equal to the excess of the amount of refunds
    resulting       from   overpayment       of     tax     liability     under
    subsections (c) and (d) of Section 201 of this Act paid
    from the Income Tax Refund Fund during the fiscal year
    over the amount collected pursuant to subsections (c) and
    (d) of Section 201 of this Act deposited into the Income
    Tax Refund Fund during the fiscal year.
          (4.5) As soon as possible after the end of fiscal year
    1999 and continuing through the end of fiscal year 2025 of
    each fiscal year thereafter, the Director shall order
    transferred and the State Treasurer and State Comptroller
    shall transfer from the Income Tax Refund Fund to the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    General Revenue Fund any surplus remaining in the Income
    Tax    Refund   Fund      as    of   the   end     of    such     fiscal     year;
    excluding for fiscal years 2000, 2001, and 2002 amounts
    attributable to transfers under item (3) of subsection (c)
    less refunds resulting from the earned income tax credit,
    and excluding for fiscal year 2022 amounts attributable to
    transfers from the General Revenue Fund authorized by
    Public Act 102-700. For purposes of                          this item       (4.5),
    "surplus" means the cash balance in the Income Tax Refund
    Fund    at    the   end    of    such      fiscal       year,    less    amounts
    attributable        to    transfers        under        item     (3)    of    this
    subsection (d).
          (4.7) As soon as possible after the end of fiscal year
    2026 and of each fiscal year thereafter, after making all
    payments and transfers required under paragraphs (1), (2),
    and (3) of this subsection (d), the Director shall order
    transferred and the State Treasurer and State Comptroller
    shall transfer from the Income Tax Refund Fund any amount
    in the Income Tax Refund Fund as of the end of such fiscal
    year as follows: the first $150,000,000 into the General
    Revenue Fund, then any remaining amounts into the Pension
    Stabilization Fund.
          (5)    This   Act    shall     constitute         an     irrevocable     and
    continuing appropriation from the Income Tax Refund Fund
    for the purposes of (i) paying refunds upon the order of
    the Director in accordance with the provisions of this
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Section and (ii) paying one-time rebate payments under
    Sections 208.5 and 212.1.
    (e) Deposits into the Education Assistance Fund and the
Income Tax Surcharge Local Government Distributive Fund. On
July    1,   1991,   and   thereafter,   of   the     amounts     collected
pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act,
minus deposits into the Income Tax Refund Fund, the Department
shall deposit 7.3% into the Education Assistance Fund in the
State    treasury    Treasury.    Beginning        July   1,    1991,   and
continuing through January 31, 1993, of the amounts collected
pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of the
Illinois Income Tax Act, minus deposits into the Income Tax
Refund Fund, the Department shall deposit 3.0% into the Income
Tax Surcharge Local Government Distributive Fund in the State
treasury Treasury. Beginning February 1, 1993 and continuing
through June 30, 1993, of the amounts collected pursuant to
subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of the Illinois Income
Tax Act, minus deposits into the Income Tax Refund Fund, the
Department shall deposit 4.4% into the Income Tax Surcharge
Local   Government    Distributive   Fund     in    the   State    treasury
Treasury. Beginning July 1, 1993, and continuing through June
30, 1994, of the amounts collected under subsections (a) and
(b) of Section 201 of this Act, minus deposits into the Income
Tax Refund Fund, the Department shall deposit 1.475% into the
Income Tax Surcharge Local Government Distributive Fund in the
State treasury Treasury.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (f)    Deposits     into    the   Fund      for   the    Advancement    of
Education. Beginning February 1, 2015, the Department shall
deposit the following portions of the revenue realized from
the tax imposed upon individuals, trusts, and estates by
subsections (a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act, minus
deposits into the Income Tax Refund Fund, into the Fund for the
Advancement of Education:
          (1) beginning February 1, 2015, and prior to February
    1, 2025, 1/30; and
          (2) beginning February 1, 2025, 1/26.
    If the rate of tax imposed by subsection (a) and (b) of
Section 201 is reduced pursuant to Section 201.5 of this Act,
the Department shall not make the deposits required by this
subsection    (f)     on   or   after    the     effective    date   of    the
reduction.
    (g) Deposits into the Commitment to Human Services Fund.
Beginning February 1, 2015, the Department shall deposit the
following    portions      of   the   revenue    realized     from   the   tax
imposed upon individuals, trusts, and estates by subsections
(a) and (b) of Section 201 of this Act, minus deposits into the
Income Tax Refund Fund, into the Commitment to Human Services
Fund:
          (1) beginning February 1, 2015, and prior to February
    1, 2025, 1/30; and
          (2) beginning February 1, 2025, 1/26.
    If the rate of tax imposed by subsection (a) and (b) of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Section 201 is reduced pursuant to Section 201.5 of this Act,
the Department shall not make the deposits required by this
subsection    (g)     on    or        after    the     effective    date   of     the
reduction.
    (h) Deposits into the Tax Compliance and Administration
Fund. Beginning on the first day of the first calendar month to
occur on or after August 26, 2014 (the effective date of Public
Act 98-1098), each month the Department shall pay into the Tax
Compliance and Administration Fund, to be used, subject to
appropriation,      to     fund       additional      auditors     and   compliance
personnel at the Department, an amount equal to 1/12 of 5% of
the cash receipts collected during the preceding fiscal year
by the Audit Bureau of the Department from the tax imposed by
subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) of Section 201 of this Act,
net of deposits into the Income Tax Refund Fund made from those
cash receipts.
(Source:   P.A.     103-8,       eff.    6-7-23;       103-154,     eff.   6-30-23;
103-588,     eff.    6-5-24;          104-2,    eff.     6-16-25;     104-6,    eff.
6-16-25; revised 9-10-25.)


    Section     20-15.          The    State        Pension   Funds      Continuing
Appropriation       Act    is    amended       by    changing    Section    1.7    as
follows:


    (40 ILCS 15/1.7)
    Sec. 1.7. Appropriations from the Pension Stabilization
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Fund.
     (a) All of the moneys deposited or transferred from time
to   time   into    the    Pension    Stabilization    Fund    are   hereby
appropriated, on a continuing basis, to the State Comptroller
for the purpose of making distributions to the designated
retirement systems as provided in Section 25 of the Budget
Stabilization Act.
     (b) The appropriations made under this Section are in
addition    to,    and    do   not   affect,   the   amounts   subject   to
appropriation under any other Section of this Act.
(Source: P.A. 94-839, eff. 6-6-06.)


                                Article 25.


     Section 25-5. The State Finance Act is amended by changing
Sections 5.238, 5.382, and 5.904 and by adding Section 5.1039
as follows:


     (30 ILCS 105/5.238) (from Ch. 127, par. 141.238)
     Sec. 5.238. The Clean Water State Revolving Fund.
(Source: P.A. 91-52, eff. 6-30-99.)


     (30 ILCS 105/5.382)
     Sec. 5.382. The Environmental Disaster and Remediation
Landfill Closure and Post-Closure Fund.
(Source: P.A. 88-496; 88-670, eff. 12-2-94.)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b



    (30 ILCS 105/5.904)
    Sec.   5.904.     The   Coal      Combustion      Residual    Surface
Impoundment Financial Assurance Fund. This Section is repealed
on January 1, 2027.
(Source: P.A. 101-171, eff. 7-30-19; 102-558, eff. 8-20-21.)


    (30 ILCS 105/5.1039 new)
    Sec. 5.1039. The Drinking Water State Revolving Fund.


    Section 25-10. The Environmental Protection Act is amended
by changing Sections 19.1, 19.2, 19.3, and 19.5 and by adding
Section 19.3.1 as follows:


    (415 ILCS 5/19.1) (from Ch. 111 1/2, par. 1019.1)
    Sec.   19.1.   Legislative     findings.    The   General    Assembly
finds:
         (a) that local government units require assistance in
    financing the construction of water treatment works and
    projects in order to comply with the State's program of
    environmental      protection       and      federally       mandated
    requirements;
         (b)   that   the   federal    Water    Quality   Act    of   1987
    provides an important source of grant awards to the State
    for providing assistance to local government units through
    the Water Pollution Control Loan Program;
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        (c) that local government units and privately owned
    community water supplies require assistance in financing
    the construction of their public water supplies to comply
    with   State       and     federal   drinking      water     laws    and
    regulations;
        (d) that the federal Safe Drinking Water Act ("SDWA"),
    P.L. 93-523, as now or hereafter amended, provides an
    important source of capitalization grant awards to the
    State to provide assistance to local government units and
    privately    owned       community   water    supplies     through   the
    Public Water Supply Loan Program;
        (e) that violations of State and federal drinking
    water standards threaten the public interest, safety, and
    welfare, which demands that the Illinois Environmental
    Protection Agency expeditiously adopt emergency rules to
    administer the Public Water Supply Loan Program;
        (f)     that    the    General    Assembly     agrees    with    the
    conclusions and recommendations of the "Report to the
    Illinois General Assembly on the Issue of Expanding Public
    Water Supply Loan Eligibility to Privately Owned Community
    Water Supplies", dated August 1998, including the stated
    access to the Public Water Supply Loan Program by the
    privately owned public water supplies so that the long
    term integrity and viability of the corpus of the Water
    Revolving Fund (now the Clean Water State Revolving Fund
    and the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund) will                     be
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    assured;
          (g) that the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
    2009 provides a source of capitalization grant awards to
    the State to provide loans and additional subsidization,
    including, but not limited to, forgiveness of principal,
    negative interest loans, and grants, to local government
    units through the Water Pollution Control Loan Program and
    to local government units and privately owned community
    water   supplies     through   the   Public      Water    Supply    Loan
    Program;
          (h) that expanding eligibility to include publicly
    owned    municipal    storm      water    projects       eligible   for
    financing as treatment works, as defined under Section 212
    of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, will provide
    the Agency with the statutory authority to use moneys in
    the   Water   Pollution    Control       Loan   Program    to   provide
    financial     assistance   for    eligible      projects,    including
    those that encourage green infrastructure, that manage and
    treat storm water, and that maintain and restore natural
    hydrology by infiltrating, evapotranspiring, and capturing
    and using storm water;
          (i) that in planning projects for which financing will
    be sought from the Water Pollution Control Loan Program,
    municipalities may benefit from efforts to consider a
    project's lifetime costs; the availability of long-term
    funding for the construction, operation, maintenance, and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


     replacement of the project; the resilience of the project
     to the effects of climate change; the project's ability to
     increase water efficiency; the capacity of the project to
     restore      natural    hydrology   or    to    preserve    or    restore
     landscape features; the cost-effectiveness of the project;
     and    the    overall    environmental     innovativeness        of    the
     project; and
           (j) that projects implementing a management program
     established      under    Section   319    of     the   Federal       Water
     Pollution Control Act may benefit from the creation of a
     linked deposit program that would make loans available at
     or below market interest rates through private lenders.
(Source: P.A. 98-782, eff. 7-23-14.)


     (415 ILCS 5/19.2) (from Ch. 111 1/2, par. 1019.2)
     Sec. 19.2. As used in this Title, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise:
     (a) "Agency" means the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
     (b) (Blank). "Fund" means the Water Revolving Fund created
pursuant to this Title, consisting of the Water Pollution
Control Loan Program, the Public Water Supply Loan Program,
and the Loan Support Program.
     (c) "Loan" means a loan made from the Water Pollution
Control Loan Program or the Public Water Supply Loan Program
to   an    eligible   applicant    as    a    result    of   a   contractual
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


agreement between the Agency and such applicant.
    (d) "Construction" means any one or more of the following
which is undertaken for a public purpose: preliminary planning
to determine the feasibility of the treatment works or public
water supply, engineering, architectural, legal, fiscal or
economic investigations or studies, surveys, designs, plans,
working        drawings,         specifications,       procedures        or    other
necessary         actions,            erection,     building,       acquisition,
alteration, remodeling, improvement or extension of treatment
works     or     public      water      supplies,    or   the    inspection       or
supervision of any of the foregoing items. "Construction" also
includes implementation of source water quality protection
measures       and    establishment        and    implementation    of    wellhead
protection programs in accordance with Section 1452(k)(1) of
the federal Safe Drinking Water Act.
    (e) "Intended use plan" means a plan which includes a
description of the short and long term goals and objectives of
the Water Pollution Control Loan Program and the Public Water
Supply         Loan        Program,      project      categories,        discharge
requirements,          terms     of    financial    assistance   and     the    loan
applicants to be served.
    (f) "Treatment works" means treatment works, as defined in
Section    212        of   the   Federal    Water    Pollution     Control      Act,
including, but not limited to, the following: any devices and
systems owned by a local government unit and used in the
storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewerage or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


industrial wastes of a liquid nature, including intercepting
sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems, pumping
power   and     other   equipment,      and   appurtenances;      extensions,
improvements, remodeling, additions, and alterations thereof;
elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply, such
as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; any
works, including site acquisition of the land that will be an
integral      part    of   the    treatment      process   for     wastewater
facilities; and any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating, or disposing
of   municipal        waste,     including     storm    water     runoff,   or
industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and
sanitary sewer systems as those terms are defined in the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
     (g) "Local government unit" means a county, municipality,
township, municipal or county sewerage or utility authority,
sanitary      district,        public    water    district,       improvement
authority or any other political subdivision whose primary
purpose    is    to   construct,     operate     and   maintain    wastewater
treatment facilities, including storm water treatment systems,
or public water supply facilities or both.
     (h) "Privately owned community water supply" means:
          (1) an investor-owned water utility, if under Illinois
     Commerce Commission regulation and operating as a separate
     and distinct water utility;
          (2) a not-for-profit water corporation, if operating
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    specifically as a water utility; and
        (3) a mutually owned or cooperatively owned community
    water system, if operating as a separate water utility.
(Source: P.A. 98-782, eff. 7-23-14.)


    (415 ILCS 5/19.3) (from Ch. 111 1/2, par. 1019.3)
    Sec. 19.3. Clean Water State Revolving Fund.
    (a) There is hereby created within the State treasury
Treasury a Clean Water State Revolving Fund, consisting of 2 3
interest-bearing special programs to be known as the Water
Pollution Control Loan Program, the Public Water Supply Loan
Program, and the Water Pollution Control Loan Support Program,
which shall be used and administered by the Agency.
    (b) The Water Pollution Control Loan Program shall be used
and administered by the Agency to provide assistance for the
following purposes:
        (1) to accept and retain funds from grant awards,
    appropriations, transfers, and payments of interest and
    principal;
        (2) to make direct loans at or below market interest
    rates and to provide additional subsidization, including,
    but not limited to, forgiveness of principal, negative
    interest     rates,   and   grants,   to   any   eligible   local
    government unit to finance the construction of treatments
    works, including storm water treatment systems that are
    treatment works, and projects that fulfill federal State
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Revolving Fund grant requirements for a green project
    reserve;
         (2.5)       with    respect         to   funds    provided      under       the
    American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009:
               (A)    to     make      direct     loans    at    or    below    market
         interest rates to any eligible local government unit
         and     to    provide         additional        subsidization         to    any
         eligible local government unit, including, but not
         limited       to,       forgiveness        of     principal,      negative
         interest rates, and grants;
               (B)    to     make      direct     loans    at    or    below    market
         interest rates to any eligible local government unit
         to buy or refinance debt obligations for treatment
         works incurred on or after October 1, 2008; and
               (C)      to         provide        additional          subsidization,
         including,          but       not    limited     to,     forgiveness          of
         principal, negative interest rates, and grants for
         treatment works incurred on or after October 1, 2008;
         (3) to make direct loans at or below market interest
    rates and to provide additional subsidization, including,
    but not limited to, forgiveness of principal, negative
    interest      rates,         and    grants,     to     any    eligible          local
    government unit to buy or refinance debt obligations for
    costs incurred after March 7, 1985, for the construction
    of   treatment          works,      including       storm    water     treatment
    systems    that        are     treatment      works,    and       projects       that
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    fulfill federal State Revolving Fund grant requirements
    for a green project reserve;
        (3.5) to make loans, including, but not limited to,
    loans through a linked deposit program, at or below market
    interest rates for the implementation of a management
    program established under Section 319 of the Federal Water
    Pollution Control Act, as amended;
        (4)   to   guarantee    or   purchase      insurance    for   local
    obligations where such action would improve credit market
    access or reduce interest rates;
        (5) as a source of revenue or security for the payment
    of principal and interest on revenue or general obligation
    bonds issued by the State or any political subdivision or
    instrumentality thereof, if the proceeds of such bonds
    will be deposited into in the Fund;
        (6) to finance the reasonable costs incurred by the
    Agency in the administration of the Fund;
        (7) to     transfer funds      from     the Clean    Water State
    Revolving Fund into the Drinking Water State Revolving
    Fund for to the Public Water Supply Loan Program and the
    Public Water Supply Loan Support Program; and
        (8)   notwithstanding        any   other    provision    of    this
    subsection     (b),   to   provide,    in   accordance     with   rules
    adopted under this Title, any other financial assistance
    that may be provided under Section 603 of the Federal
    Water Pollution Control Act for any other projects or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    activities eligible for assistance under that Section or
    federal rules adopted to implement that Section.
    (c) The Water Pollution Control Loan Support Program shall
be used and administered by the Agency for the following
purposes:
        (1) to accept and retain funds from grant awards and
    appropriations;
        (2) to finance the reasonable costs incurred by the
    Agency in the administration of the Clean Water State
    Revolving Fund, including activities under Title III and
    Title IV of this Act, including the administration of the
    State construction grant program;
        (3) to transfer funds to the Water Pollution Control
    Loan Program and the Public Water Supply Loan Program
    within    the   Clean    Water   State    Revolving     Fund    and   the
    Drinking Water State Revolving Fund;
        (4)   to    accept    and    retain   a   portion   of     the    loan
    repayments; and
        (5) to finance the development of the low interest
    loan programs for water pollution control. and public
    water supply projects;
        (6) to finance the reasonable costs incurred by the
    Agency to provide technical assistance for public water
    supplies; and
        (7) to finance the reasonable costs incurred by the
    Agency for public water system supervision programs, to
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    administer or provide for technical assistance through
    source water protection programs, to develop and implement
    a capacity development strategy, to delineate and assess
    source     water      protection     areas,       and    for   an   operator
    certification program in accordance with Section 1452 of
    the federal Safe Drinking Water Act.
    (d) (Blank). The Public Water Supply Loan Program shall be
used and administered by the Agency to provide assistance to
local government units and privately owned community water
supplies for public water supplies for the following public
purposes:
        (1) to accept and retain funds from grant awards,
    appropriations, transfers, and payments of interest and
    principal;
        (2) to make direct loans at or below market interest
    rates and to provide additional subsidization, including,
    but not limited to, forgiveness of principal, negative
    interest     rates,      and    grants,     to     any    eligible       local
    government      unit    or     to   any    eligible       privately      owned
    community water supply to finance the construction of
    water supplies and projects that fulfill federal State
    Revolving Fund grant requirements for a green project
    reserve;
        (2.5)      with    respect      to    funds     provided     under    the
    American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009:
             (A)    to     make    direct     loans    at    or    below   market
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        interest rates to any eligible local government unit
        or to any eligible privately owned community water
        supply, and to provide additional subsidization to any
        eligible local government unit or to any eligible
        privately owned community water supply, including, but
        not limited to, forgiveness of principal, negative
        interest rates, and grants;
            (B) to buy or refinance the debt obligation of a
        local government unit for costs incurred on or after
        October 1, 2008; and
            (C)      to         provide        additional     subsidization,
        including,        but     not     limited     to,   forgiveness    of
        principal, negative interest rates, and grants for a
        local government unit for costs incurred on or after
        October 1, 2008;
        (3) to make direct loans at or below market interest
    rates and to provide additional subsidization, including,
    but not limited to, forgiveness of principal, negative
    interest     rates,     and    grants,       to   any   eligible    local
    government    unit     or     to    any     eligible    privately   owned
    community     water     supply        to    buy   or    refinance     debt
    obligations for costs incurred on or after July 17, 1997,
    for the construction of water supplies and projects that
    fulfill federal State Revolving Fund requirements for a
    green project reserve;
        (4) to guarantee local obligations where such action
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


     would improve credit market access or reduce interest
     rates;
           (5) as a source of revenue or security for the payment
     of principal and interest on revenue or general obligation
     bonds issued by the State or any political subdivision or
     instrumentality thereof, if the proceeds of such bonds
     will be deposited into the Fund;
           (6) to transfer funds to the Water Pollution Control
     Loan Program; and
           (7)    notwithstanding        any    other     provision         of    this
     subsection (d), to provide to local government units and
     privately       owned     community       water     supplies       any      other
     financial assistance that may be provided under Section
     1452    of   the   federal       Safe    Drinking    Water       Act   for   any
     expenditures eligible for assistance under that Section or
     federal rules adopted to implement that Section.
     (e) The Agency is designated as the administering agency
of the Clean Water State Revolving Fund. The Agency shall
submit to the Regional Administrator of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency an intended use plan that
which outlines the proposed use of funds available to the
State. The Agency shall take all actions necessary to secure
to   the    State    the     benefits    of    the     Federal    federal        Water
Pollution Control Act and the federal Safe Drinking Water Act,
as now or hereafter amended.
     (f)    The     Agency    shall     have    the    power     to    enter      into
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


intergovernmental agreements with the federal government or
the State, or any instrumentality thereof, for purposes of
capitalizing the Clean Water State Revolving Fund. Moneys on
deposit in the Clean Water State Revolving Fund may be used for
the creation of reserve funds or pledged funds that secure the
obligations       of   repayment   of   loans    made   pursuant   to    this
Section. For the purpose of obtaining capital for deposit into
the Clean Water State Revolving Fund, the Agency may also
enter into agreements with financial institutions and other
persons for the purpose of selling loans and developing a
secondary market for such loans. The Agency shall have the
power to create and establish such reserve funds and accounts
as may be necessary or desirable to accomplish its purposes
under this subsection and to allocate its available moneys
into such funds and accounts. Investment earnings on moneys
held in the Clean Water State Revolving Fund, including any
reserve fund or pledged fund, shall be deposited into the
Clean Water State Revolving Fund.
     (g) (Blank). Beginning on the effective date                  of this
amendatory Act of the 101st General Assembly, and running for
a   period   of    5   years   after    that    date,   the   Agency    shall
prioritize within its annual intended use plan the usage of a
portion of the Agency's capitalization grant for federally
authorized set-aside activities. The prioritization is for the
purpose of supporting disadvantaged communities and utilities
throughout Illinois in building their capacity for sustainable
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


and equitable water management. This may include, but is not
limited to, assistance for water rate studies, preliminary
engineering or other facility planning, training activities,
asset management plans, assistance with identification and
replacement of lead service lines, and studies of efficiency
measures     through    utility    regionalization     or    other
collaborative intergovernmental approaches.
(Source: P.A. 101-143, eff. 1-1-20.)


    (415 ILCS 5/19.3.1 new)
    Sec. 19.3.1. Drinking Water State Revolving Fund.
    (a) There is hereby created within the State treasury a
Drinking    Water   State   Revolving   Fund,   consisting   of   2
interest-bearing special programs to be known as the Public
Water Supply Loan Program and the Public Water Supply Loan
Support Program, which shall be used and administered by the
Agency.
    (b) The Public Water Supply Loan Program shall be used and
administered by the Agency to provide assistance for the
following purposes:
          (1) to accept and retain funds from grant awards,
    appropriations, transfers, and payments of interest and
    principal;
          (2) to make direct loans at or below market interest
    rates and to provide additional subsidization, including,
    but not limited to, forgiveness of principal, negative
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    interest     rates,     and    grants,      to    any    eligible       local
    government     unit    or     to    any    eligible     privately       owned
    community water supply to finance the construction of
    water supplies and projects that fulfill federal State
    Revolving Fund grant requirements for a green project
    reserve;
        (2.5)     with    respect       to    funds   provided      under    the
    American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009:
            (A)    to     make    direct      loans   at    or    below   market
        interest rates to any eligible local government unit
        or to any eligible privately owned community water
        supply, and to provide additional subsidization to any
        eligible local government unit or to any eligible
        privately owned community water supply, including, but
        not limited to, forgiveness of principal, negative
        interest rates, and grants;
            (B) to buy or refinance the debt obligation of a
        local government unit for costs incurred on or after
        October 1, 2008; and
            (C)      to         provide       additional         subsidization,
        including,        but     not     limited     to,    forgiveness       of
        principal, negative interest rates, and grants for a
        local government unit for costs incurred on or after
        October 1, 2008;
        (3) to make direct loans at or below market interest
    rates and to provide additional subsidization including,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    but not limited to, forgiveness of principal, negative
    interest      rates,   and    grants       to     any   eligible        local
    government      unit   or    to   any     eligible      privately       owned
    community      water   supply       to     buy    or    refinance        debt
    obligations for costs incurred on or after July 17, 1997,
    for the construction of water supplies and projects that
    fulfill federal State Revolving Fund requirements for a
    green project reserve;
        (4) to guarantee local obligations where such action
    would improve credit market access or reduce interest
    rates;
        (5) as a source of revenue or security for the payment
    of principal and interest on revenue or general obligation
    bonds issued by the State or any political subdivision or
    instrumentality thereof, if the proceeds of such bonds
    will be deposited into the Drinking Water State Revolving
    Fund;
        (6) to transfer funds from the Drinking Water State
    Revolving Fund to the Clean Water State Revolving Fund for
    the Water Pollution Control Loan Program and the Water
    Pollution Control Loan Support Program; and
        (7)      notwithstanding      any     other    provision       of    this
    subsection (b), to provide to local government units and
    privately      owned   community         water    supplies     any      other
    financial assistance that may be provided under Section
    1452    of   the   federal   Safe    Drinking      Water     Act   for   any
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    expenditures eligible for assistance under that Section or
    federal rules adopted to implement that Section.
    (c) The Public Water Supply Loan Support Program shall be
used   and    administered    by     the   Agency   for     the    following
purposes:
        (1) to accept and retain funds from grant awards and
    appropriations;
        (2) to finance the reasonable costs incurred by the
    Agency in the administration of the Drinking Water State
    Revolving Fund, including activities under Title III and
    Title IV of this Act, including the administration of the
    State construction grant program;
        (3) to transfer funds to the Water Pollution Control
    Loan Program and the Public Water Supply Loan Program
    within    the   Clean    Water   State    Revolving     Fund    and   the
    Drinking Water State Revolving Fund;
        (4)    to   accept    and    retain   a   portion    of    the    loan
    repayments;
        (5) to finance the development of low interest loan
    programs for public water supply projects;
        (6) to finance the reasonable costs incurred by the
    Agency to provide technical assistance for public water
    supplies; and
        (7) to finance the reasonable costs incurred by the
    Agency for public water system supervision programs, to
    administer or provide for technical assistance through
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    source water protection programs, to develop and implement
    a capacity development strategy, to delineate and assess
    source       water   protection   areas,     and   for    an   operator
    certification program in accordance with Section 1452 of
    the federal Safe Drinking Water Act.
    (d) The Agency is designated as the administering agency
of the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund. The Agency shall
submit to the Regional Administrator of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency an intended use plan that
outlines the proposed use of funds available to the State. The
Agency shall take all actions necessary to secure to the State
the benefits of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, as now or hereafter
amended.
    (e)    The    Agency   shall   have   the    power   to    enter   into
intergovernmental agreements with the federal government or
the State, or any instrumentality thereof, for purposes of
capitalizing the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund. Moneys
on deposit in the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund may be
used for the creation of reserve funds or pledged funds that
secure the repayment of loans made under this Section. For the
purpose of obtaining capital for deposit into the Drinking
Water State Revolving Fund, the Agency may also enter into
agreements with financial institutions and other persons for
the purpose of selling loans and developing a secondary market
for such loans. The Agency shall have the power to create and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


establish such reserve funds and accounts as may be necessary
or desirable to accomplish its purposes under this subsection
and to allocate its available moneys into such funds and
accounts. Investment earnings on moneys held in the Drinking
Water State Revolving Fund, including any reserve fund or
pledged fund, shall be deposited into the Drinking Water State
Revolving Fund.


    (415 ILCS 5/19.5) (from Ch. 111 1/2, par. 1019.5)
    Sec. 19.5. Loans; repayment.
    (a) The Agency shall have the authority to make loans
pursuant to the regulations promulgated under Section 19.4.
    (b) Loans made from the Clean Water State Revolving Fund
and the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund shall provide for:
        (1) a schedule of disbursement of proceeds;
        (2) a fixed   rate   that   includes interest and   loan
    support based upon priority, but the loan support rate
    shall not exceed one-half of the fixed rate established
    for each loan;
        (3) a schedule of repayment;
        (4) initiation of principal repayments within one year
    after the project is operational; and
        (5) a confession of judgment upon default.
    (c) The Agency may amend existing loans to include a loan
support rate only if the overall cost to the loan recipient is
not increased.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (d) A local government unit shall secure the payment of
its obligations to the Clean Water State Revolving Fund and
the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund by a dedicated source
of repayment, including revenues derived from the imposition
of rates, fees and charges. Other loan applicants shall secure
the payment of their obligations by appropriate security and
collateral pursuant to regulations promulgated under Section
19.4.
(Source:   P.A.   91-36,   eff.   6-15-99;    91-52,   eff.   6-30-99;
91-501, eff. 8-13-99; 92-16, eff. 6-28-01.)


    Section 25-15. The Environmental Protection Act is amended
by changing Sections 7.5, 21.1, 22.59, 59.13, and 59.17 as
follows:


    (415 ILCS 5/7.5) (from Ch. 111 1/2, par. 1007.5)
    Sec. 7.5. Filing fees.
    (a) The Board shall collect filing fees as prescribed in
this Act. The fees shall be deposited into in the Pollution
Control Board Fund. The filing fees shall be as follows:
        Petition for site-specific regulation, $250 $75.
        Petition for variance, $250 $75.
        Petition for review of permit, $250 $75.
        Petition to contest local government decision pursuant
    to Section 40.1, $250 $75.
        Petition for an adjusted standard, pursuant to Section
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      28.1, $250 $75.
          Petition for a time-limited water quality standard,
      $250 $75 per petitioner.
      On July 1, 2027 and each July 1 thereafter, the filing fees
charged under this Section shall each be increased by an
amount equal to the annual unadjusted percentage increase (but
not less than zero) in the Consumer Price Index-U for the 12
months ending with the March preceding each July 1, including
all previous adjustments, rounded down to the nearest whole
number. As used in this Section, "Consumer Price Index-U"
means the index published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of
the   United   States   Department   of   Labor   that   measures   the
average change in prices of goods and services purchased by
all urban consumers, United States city average, all items,
1982-84 = 100.
      (b) A person who has filed a petition for a variance from a
water quality standard and paid the filing fee set forth in
subsection (a) of this Section for that petition and whose
variance petition is thereafter converted into a petition for
a time-limited water quality standard under Section 38.5 of
this Act shall not be required to pay a separate filing fee
upon the conversion of the variance petition into a petition
for a time-limited water quality standard.
(Source: P.A. 99-937, eff. 2-24-17.)


      (415 ILCS 5/21.1) (from Ch. 111 1/2, par. 1021.1)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      Sec. 21.1. (a) Except as provided in subsection (a.5), no
person other than the State of Illinois, its agencies and
institutions, or a unit of local government shall own or
operate a MSWLF unit or other waste disposal operation on or
after March 1, 1985, which requires a permit under subsection
(d) of Section 21 of this Act, unless such person has posted
with the Agency a performance bond or other security for the
purpose of insuring closure of the site and post-closure care
in    accordance        with   this     Act    and    regulations       adopted
thereunder.
      (a.5) On and after the effective date established by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency for MSWLF units
to    provide    financial     assurance      under   Subtitle     D    of   the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, no person, other than
the State of Illinois, its agencies and institutions, shall
own or operate a MSWLF unit that requires a permit under
subsection (d) of Section 21 of this Act, unless that person
has   posted     with    the   Agency    a    performance   bond       or   other
security for the purposes of:
          (1) insuring closure of the site and post-closure care
      in accordance with this Act and its rules; and
          (2) insuring completion of a corrective action remedy
      when required by Board rules adopted under Section 22.40
      of this Act or when required by Section 22.41 of this Act.
      The performance bond or other security requirement set
forth    in     this    Section   may    be    fulfilled    by   closure       or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


post-closure insurance, or both, issued by an insurer licensed
to transact the business of insurance by the Department of
Insurance or at a minimum the insurer must be licensed to
transact the business of insurance or approved to provide
insurance    as    an   excess    or   surplus   lines      insurer    by   the
insurance department in one or more states.
    (b) On or before January 1, 1985, the Board shall adopt
regulations to promote the purposes of this Section. Without
limiting the generality of this authority, such regulations
may, among other things, prescribe the type and amount of the
performance       bonds     or   other     securities       required    under
subsections (a) and (a.5) of this Section, and the conditions
under which the State is entitled to collect moneys monies
from such performance bonds or other securities. The bond
amount shall be directly related to the design and volume of
the site. The cost estimate for the post-closure care of a
MSWLF unit shall be calculated using a 30 year post-closure
care period or such other period as may be approved by the
Agency   under     Board    or   federal    rules.     On   and   after     the
effective date established by the United States Environmental
Protection    Agency       for   MSWLF   units    to    provide    financial
assurance under Subtitle D of the Resource Conservation and
Recovery    Act,    closure,     post-closure     care,     and   corrective
action cost estimates for MSWLF units shall be in current
dollars.
    (c) There is hereby created within the State treasury
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Treasury a special fund to be known as the Environmental
Disaster and Remediation Fund (formerly known as the "Landfill
Closure and Post-Closure Fund) ". Any moneys monies forfeited
to the State of Illinois from any performance bond or other
security required under this Section shall be placed in the
Environmental Disaster and Remediation Fund (formerly known as
the "Landfill Closure and Post-Closure Fund) " and shall, upon
approval by the Governor and the Director, be used by and under
the direction of the Agency for the purposes for which such
performance    bond    or   other    security      was      issued.    The
Environmental Disaster and Remediation Landfill Closure and
Post-Closure    Fund   is   not   subject     to   the    provisions    of
subsection (c) of Section 5 of the State Finance Act.
    (d) The Agency is authorized to enter into such contracts
and agreements as it may deem necessary to carry out the
purposes of this Section. Neither the State, nor the Director,
nor any State employee shall be liable for any damages or
injuries arising out of or resulting from any action taken
under this Section.
    (e) The Agency shall have the authority to approve or
disapprove    any   performance   bond   or   other      security   posted
pursuant to subsection (a) or (a.5) of this Section. Any
person whose performance bond or other security is disapproved
by the Agency may contest the disapproval as a permit denial
appeal pursuant to Section 40 of this Act.
    (f) The Agency may establish such procedures as it may
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


deem necessary for the purpose of implementing and executing
its responsibilities under this Section.
    (g) Nothing in this Section shall bar a cause of action by
the State for any other penalty or relief provided by this Act
or any other law.
(Source: P.A. 97-887, eff. 8-2-12.)


    (415 ILCS 5/22.59)
    Sec. 22.59. CCR surface impoundments.
    (a) The General Assembly finds that:
         (1) the State of Illinois has a long-standing policy
    to   restore,       protect,    and    enhance        the     environment,
    including     the    purity    of   the   air,      land,     and   waters,
    including groundwaters, of this State;
         (2) a clean environment is essential to the growth and
    well-being of this State;
         (3) CCR generated by the electric generating industry
    has caused groundwater contamination and other forms of
    pollution at active and inactive plants throughout this
    State;
         (4)   environmental       laws   should     be    supplemented      to
    ensure consistent, responsible regulation of all existing
    CCR surface impoundments; and
         (5)    meaningful     participation       of     State     residents,
    especially vulnerable populations who may be affected by
    regulatory      actions,       is     critical        to    ensure     that
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    environmental justice considerations are incorporated in
    the    development   of,    decision-making    related   to,   and
    implementation of environmental laws and rulemaking that
    protects and improves the well-being of communities in
    this State that bear disproportionate burdens imposed by
    environmental pollution.
    Therefore, the purpose of this Section is to promote a
healthful environment, including clean water, air, and land,
meaningful public involvement, and the responsible disposal
and storage of coal combustion residuals, so as to protect
public health and to prevent pollution of the environment of
this State.
    The    provisions    of    this   Section   shall   be   liberally
construed to carry out the purposes of this Section.
    (b) No person shall:
          (1) cause or allow the discharge of any contaminants
    from a CCR surface impoundment into the environment so as
    to cause, directly or indirectly, a violation of this
    Section or any regulations or standards adopted by the
    Board under this Section, either alone or in combination
    with contaminants from other sources;
          (2) construct, install, modify, operate, or close any
    CCR surface impoundment without a permit granted by the
    Agency, or so as to violate any conditions imposed by such
    permit, any provision of this Section or any regulations
    or standards adopted by the Board under this Section;
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


          (3)    cause   or   allow,     directly      or     indirectly,    the
    discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking,
    or placing of any CCR upon the land in a place and manner
    so as to cause or tend to cause a violation of this Section
    or any regulations or standards adopted by the Board under
    this Section; or
          (4) construct, install, modify, or close a CCR surface
    impoundment in accordance with a permit issued under this
    Act without certifying to the Agency that all contractors,
    subcontractors,       and      installers     utilized      to   construct,
    install, modify, or close a CCR surface impoundment are
    participants in:
                (A) a training program that is approved by and
          registered     with      the   United      States    Department     of
          Labor's   Employment and        Training      Administration and
          that    includes    instruction       in    erosion     control    and
          environmental remediation; and
                (B) a training program that is approved by and
          registered     with      the   United      States    Department     of
          Labor's   Employment and        Training      Administration and
          that includes instruction in the operation of heavy
          equipment and excavation.
          Nothing in this paragraph (4) shall be construed to
    require      providers    of    construction-related         professional
    services to participate in a training program approved by
    and   registered      with     the   United      States     Department    of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Labor's Employment and Training Administration.
          In     this         paragraph             (4),     "construction-related
    professional services" includes, but is not limited to,
    those services within the scope of: (i) the practice of
    architecture as regulated under the Illinois Architecture
    Practice Act of 1989; (ii) professional engineering as
    defined      in       Section    4    of    the    Professional              Engineering
    Practice Act of 1989; (iii) the practice of a structural
    engineer         as    defined       in    Section      4     of       the   Structural
    Engineering Practice Act of 1989; or (iv) land surveying
    under the Illinois Professional Land Surveyor Act of 1989.
    (c) (Blank).
    (d)      Before        commencing          closure       of        a     CCR    surface
impoundment, in accordance with Board rules, the owner of a
CCR surface impoundment must submit to the Agency for approval
a closure alternatives analysis that analyzes all closure
methods being considered and that otherwise satisfies all
closure requirements adopted by the Board under this Act.
Complete removal of CCR, as specified by the Board's rules,
from   the     CCR    surface       impoundment        must       be       considered   and
analyzed. Section 3.405 does not apply to the Board's rules
specifying      complete       removal         of    CCR.   The        selected     closure
method must ensure compliance with regulations adopted by the
Board pursuant to this Section.
    (e) Owners or operators of CCR surface impoundments who
have submitted a closure plan to the Agency before May 1, 2019,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


and who have completed closure prior to 24 months after July
30, 2019 (the effective date of Public Act 101-171) shall not
be required to obtain a construction permit for the surface
impoundment closure under this Section.
    (f) Except for the State, its agencies and institutions, a
unit   of    local    government,    or   a   not-for-profit     electric
cooperative as defined in Section 3.4 of the Electric Supplier
Act, any person who owns or operates a CCR surface impoundment
in this State shall post with the Agency a performance bond or
other security for the purpose of: (i) ensuring closure of the
CCR surface impoundment and post-closure care in accordance
with this Act and its rules; and (ii) ensuring remediation of
releases from the CCR surface impoundment. The only acceptable
forms of financial assurance are: a trust fund, a surety bond
guaranteeing payment, a surety bond guaranteeing performance,
or an irrevocable letter of credit.
          (1) The cost estimate for the post-closure care of a
    CCR     surface   impoundment    shall    be   calculated    using   a
    30-year post-closure care period or such longer period as
    may be approved by the Agency under Board or federal
    rules.
          (2)   The   Agency   is   authorized     to   enter   into   such
    contracts and agreements as it may deem necessary to carry
    out the purposes of this Section. Neither the State, nor
    the Director, nor any State employee shall be liable for
    any damages or injuries arising out of or resulting from
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    any action taken under this Section.
          (3) The Agency shall have the authority to approve or
    disapprove any performance bond or other security posted
    under this subsection. Any person whose performance bond
    or other security is disapproved by the Agency may contest
    the disapproval as a permit denial appeal pursuant to
    Section 40.
    (g) The Board shall adopt rules establishing construction
permit requirements, operating permit requirements, design
standards, reporting, financial assurance, and closure and
post-closure care requirements for CCR surface impoundments.
Not later than 8 months after July 30, 2019 (the effective date
of Public Act 101-171) the Agency shall propose, and not later
than one year after receipt of the Agency's proposal the Board
shall adopt, rules under this Section. The Board shall not be
deemed in noncompliance with the rulemaking deadline due to
delays in adopting rules as a result of the Joint Committee on
Administrative Rules oversight process. The rules must, at a
minimum:
          (1) be at least as protective and comprehensive as the
    federal regulations or amendments thereto promulgated by
    the    Administrator   of   the   United    States    Environmental
    Protection Agency in Subpart D of 40 CFR 257 governing CCR
    surface impoundments;
          (2)   specify   the   minimum   contents   of    CCR   surface
    impoundment       construction        and    operating        permit
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    applications, including the closure alternatives analysis
    required under subsection (d);
          (3)   specify        which     types        of     permits      include
    requirements for closure, post-closure, remediation and
    all    other    requirements         applicable          to   CCR     surface
    impoundments;
          (4) specify when permit applications for existing CCR
    surface     impoundments      must    be     submitted,       taking        into
    consideration whether the CCR surface impoundment must
    close under the RCRA;
          (5) specify standards for review and approval by the
    Agency of CCR surface impoundment permit applications;
          (6) specify meaningful public participation procedures
    for the issuance of CCR surface impoundment construction
    and operating permits, including, but not limited to,
    public notice of the submission of permit applications, an
    opportunity for the submission of public comments, an
    opportunity for a public hearing prior to permit issuance,
    and a summary and response of the comments prepared by the
    Agency;
          (7) prescribe the type and amount of the performance
    bonds or other securities required under subsection (f),
    and the conditions under which the State is entitled to
    collect     moneys    from   such    performance          bonds     or   other
    securities;
          (8)   specify    a     procedure       to        identify     areas    of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    environmental justice concern in relation to CCR surface
    impoundments;
        (9)     specify   a   method     to   prioritize   CCR   surface
    impoundments required to close under RCRA if not otherwise
    specified by the United States Environmental Protection
    Agency, so that the CCR surface impoundments with the
    highest risk to public health and the environment, and
    areas of environmental justice concern are given first
    priority;
        (10) define when complete removal of CCR is achieved
    and specify the standards for responsible removal of CCR
    from CCR surface impoundments, including, but not limited
    to, dust controls and the protection of adjacent surface
    water and groundwater; and
        (11)     describe     the      process   and   standards    for
    identifying a specific alternative source of groundwater
    pollution when the owner or operator of the CCR surface
    impoundment believes that groundwater contamination on the
    site is not from the CCR surface impoundment.
    (h) Any owner of a CCR surface impoundment that generates
CCR and sells or otherwise provides coal combustion byproducts
pursuant to Section 3.135 shall, every 12 months, post on its
publicly available website a report specifying the volume or
weight of CCR, in cubic yards or tons, that it sold or provided
during the past 12 months.
    (i) The owner of a CCR surface impoundment shall post all
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


closure     plans,       permit   applications,     and    supporting
documentation, as well as any Agency approval of the plans or
applications, on its publicly available website.
    (j) The owner or operator of a CCR surface impoundment
shall pay the following fees:
          (1) An initial fee to the Agency within 6 months after
    July 30, 2019 (the effective date of Public Act 101-171)
    of:
                $50,000 for each closed CCR surface impoundment;
          and
                $75,000 for each CCR surface impoundment that has
          have not completed closure.
          (2) Annual fees to the Agency, beginning on July 1,
    2020, of:
                $25,000 for each CCR surface impoundment that has
          not completed closure; and
                $15,000 for each CCR surface impoundment that has
          completed closure, but has not completed post-closure
          care.
    (k) All fees collected by the Agency under subsection (j)
shall be deposited into the Environmental Protection Permit
and Inspection Fund.
    (l)   The     Coal   Combustion   Residual   Surface   Impoundment
Financial Assurance Fund is created as a special fund in the
State treasury. Any moneys forfeited to the State of Illinois
from any performance bond or other security required under
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


this Section shall be placed in the Coal Combustion Residual
Surface Impoundment Financial Assurance Fund and shall, upon
approval by the Governor and the Director, be used by the
Agency for the purposes for which such performance bond or
other    security        was        issued.      The    Coal     Combustion      Residual
Surface Impoundment Financial Assurance Fund is not subject to
the provisions of subsection (c) of Section 5 of the State
Finance Act.
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, on July 1,
2026,      or    as     soon        thereafter         as     practical,      the    State
Comptroller           shall    direct       and     the       State    Treasurer     shall
transfer        the    remaining          balance      from     the    Coal   Combustion
Residual Surface Impoundment Financial Assurance Fund into the
Environmental Disaster and Remediation Fund. Upon completion
of   the    transfers,          the       Coal    Combustion          Residual      Surface
Impoundment Financial Assurance Fund is dissolved, and any
future     deposits           due    to    that        Fund     and   any     outstanding
obligations or liabilities of that Fund shall pass to the
Environmental Disaster and Remediation Fund.
     (m) The provisions of this Section shall apply, without
limitation, to all existing CCR surface impoundments and any
CCR surface impoundments constructed after July 30, 2019 (the
effective date of Public Act 101-171), except to the extent
prohibited by the Illinois or United States Constitutions.
(Source: P.A. 102-16, eff. 6-17-21; 102-137, eff. 7-23-21;
102-309, eff. 8-6-21; 102-558, eff. 8-20-21; 102-662, eff.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


9-15-21; 102-813, eff. 5-13-22; 103-154, eff. 6-30-23.)


    (415 ILCS 5/59.13)
    Sec. 59.13. Carbon Dioxide Sequestration Long-Term Trust
Fund. The Carbon Dioxide Sequestration Long-Term Trust Fund is
hereby created as a State trust fund in the State treasury. The
Fund may receive deposits of moneys made available from any
source.   All   moneys   in   the   Fund   are   to   be   invested   and
reinvested by the State Treasurer. All interest accruing from
these investments shall be deposited into the Fund to be used
under the provisions of this Section. Moneys in the Fund may be
used by the Agency to cover costs incurred to:
          (1) take any remedial or corrective action necessary
    to protect human health and the environment from releases,
    or threatened releases, from a sequestration facility;
          (2) monitor, inspect, or take other action if the
    sequestration operator abandons a sequestration facility
    or injection site, or fails to maintain its obligations
    under this Act;
          (3) compensate any person suffering any damages or
    losses to a person or property caused by a release from a
    sequestration facility or carbon dioxide pipeline who is
    not otherwise compensated from the sequestration operator;
    or
          (4) any other applicable costs under the Act.
    Nothing in this Section relieves a sequestration operator
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


from its obligations under this Act, from its liability under
Section 59.12, or its obligations to maintain insurance and
financial assurances under Sections 59.10 and 59.11.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in addition to
any other transfers that may be provided by law, on July 1,
2026,   or    as    soon     thereafter        as   practical,       the        State
Comptroller     shall      direct    and      the   State     Treasurer         shall
transfer     the   remaining        balance     from   the     Carbon      Dioxide
Sequestration      Long-Term    Trust      Fund     into    the    Environmental
Disaster     and   Remediation        Fund.     Upon       completion      of    the
transfers, the Carbon Dioxide Sequestration Long-Term Trust
Fund is dissolved, and any future deposits due to that Fund and
any outstanding obligations or liabilities of that Fund shall
pass to the Environmental Disaster and Remediation Fund.
(Source: P.A. 103-651, eff. 7-18-24.)


    (415 ILCS 5/59.17)
    Sec. 59.17. Sequestration annual tonnage fee.
    (a) Beginning July 1, 2025, and each July 1 thereafter,
each sequestration operator shall report to the Agency the
tons of carbon dioxide injected in the prior 12 months.
    (b) If the sequestration operator does                        not possess a
project labor agreement, the sequestration operator shall be
assessed a per-ton sequestration fee of $0.62.
    (c) If the sequestration operator does possess a project
labor agreement, the sequestration operator shall be assessed
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


a per-ton sequestration fee of $0.31.
    (d) The fee assessed to the sequestration operator under
subsection (b) shall be reduced to $0.31 for every ton of
carbon dioxide injected into a sequestration facility in that
fiscal    year    if   the    sequestration           operator      successfully
demonstrates to the Department that the following types of
construction     and   maintenance       were    conducted         in    the    State
during that fiscal year by the sequestration operator and were
performed by contractors and subcontractors signatory to a
project labor agreement used by the building and construction
trades council with relevant geographic jurisdiction:
          (1)    construction      and     maintenance             of     equipment
    associated with the capture of carbon dioxide, including,
    but   not    limited     to,   all    clearing,         site    preparation,
    concrete, equipment, and appurtenance installation;
          (2) construction and maintenance of carbon dioxide
    pipelines used to transport carbon dioxide streams to the
    sequestration facility, including, but not limited to, all
    clearing,     site   preparation,          and   site    remediation.        For
    purposes of this paragraph (2), a national multi-craft
    project labor agreement governing pipeline construction
    and   maintenance      used    in    the    performance         of    the    work
    described in this subsection shall satisfy the project
    labor agreement requirement;
          (3)    construction      and     maintenance         of        compressor
    stations used to assist in the transport of carbon dioxide
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    streams via carbon dioxide pipeline, including, but not
    limited    to,   all   clearing,   site   preparation,   concrete,
    equipment, and appurtenance installation; and
        (4) construction of carbon dioxide injection wells
    used at the sequestration facility, including, but not
    limited    to,   all   clearing,   site   preparation,   drilling,
    distribution piping, concrete, equipment, and appurtenance
    installation.
    (e) Sequestration fees shall be deposited into the Carbon
Dioxide Sequestration Administrative Fund.
    (f) The per-ton fee for carbon dioxide injected shall be
increased by an amount equal to the percentage increase, if
any, in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for
all items published by the United States Department of Labor
for the 12 months ending in March of the year in which the
increase takes place. The rate shall be rounded to the nearest
one-hundredth of one cent.
    (g) For the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2025, and each
fiscal year thereafter, at the direction of the Agency, in
consultation with the Illinois Emergency Management Agency and
Office of Homeland Security, and the Department of Natural
Resources, the State Comptroller shall direct and the State
Treasurer shall transfer from the Carbon Dioxide Sequestration
Administrative Fund the following percentages of the amounts
collected under this Act by the Agency during the previous
fiscal year:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


         (1) 2% to the Water Resources Fund;
         (2) 6% to the Oil and Gas Resource Management Fund;
         (3) 20% to the Emergency Planning and Training Fund;
         (4) 28% to the Environmental Disaster and Remediation
    Carbon Dioxide Sequestration Long-Term Trust Fund;
         (5) 10% to the General Revenue Fund; and
         (6) 24% to the Environmental Justice Grant Fund.
(Source: P.A. 103-651, eff. 7-18-24.)


                             Article 30.


    Section 30-5. The Child Labor Law of 2024 is amended by
changing Section 75 as follows:


    (820 ILCS 206/75)
    Sec. 75. Civil penalties.
    (a) Any person employing, allowing, or permitting a minor
to work who violates any of the provisions of this Act or any
rule adopted under the Act shall be subject to civil penalties
as follows:
         (1) if a minor dies while working for an employer who
    is   found   by   the   Department   to    have   been   employing,
    allowing, or permitting the minor to work in violation of
    this Act, the employer is subject to a penalty not to
    exceed $60,000, payable to the Department;
         (2) if a minor receives an illness or an injury that is
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    required to be reported to the Department under Section 35
    while    working   for     an   employer    who    is    found    by   the
    Department to have been employing, allowing, or permitting
    the minor to work in violation of this Act, the employer is
    subject to a penalty not to exceed $30,000, payable to the
    Department;
         (3) an employer who employs, allows, or permits a
    minor to work in violation of Section 40 shall be subject
    to   a   penalty   not    to    exceed   $15,000,       payable   to   the
    Department;
         (4) an employer who fails to post or provide the
    required notice under subsection (g) of Section 35 shall
    be subject to a penalty not to exceed $500, payable to the
    Department; and
         (5) an employer who commits any other violation of
    this Act shall be subject to a penalty not to exceed
    $10,000, payable to the Department.
    In   determining         the    amount     of     the    penalty,      the
appropriateness of the penalty to the size of the business of
the employer charged and the gravity of the violation shall be
considered.
    Each day during which any violation of this Act continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense, and the
employment of any minor in violation of the Act shall, with
respect to each minor so employed, constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      (b) Any administrative determination by the Department of
the amount of each penalty shall be final unless reviewed as
provided in Section 70.
      (c) The amount of the penalty, when finally determined,
may be recovered in a civil action brought by the Director in
any circuit court, in which litigation the Director shall be
represented by the Attorney General. In an action brought by
the Department, the Department may request, and the Court may
impose on a defendant employer, an additional civil penalty of
up    to   an   amount   equal     to    the   penalties    assessed         by   the
Department to be distributed to an impacted minor. In an
action concerning multiple minors, any such penalty imposed by
the    Court    shall    be   distributed      equally     among       the   minors
employed in violation of this Act by the defendant employer.
      (d) Penalties recovered under this Section shall be paid
by certified check, money order, or by an electronic payment
system designated by the Department, and deposited into the
Child Labor and Day and Temporary Labor Services Enforcement
Fund, a special fund in the State treasury. Moneys in the Fund
shall      be   used,    subject    to    appropriation,         for    exemplary
programs,       demonstration      projects,      and    other   activities        or
purposes related to the enforcement of this Act, and for the
activities or purposes related to the enforcement of the Day
and    Temporary    Labor     Services     Act,    the    Private      Employment
Agency Act, or the Right to Privacy in the Workplace Act, for
the activities or purposes related to the enforcement of the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Job Opportunities for Qualified Applicants Act, and for the
activities or purposes related to the enforcement of the
Family Bereavement Leave Act, and the One Day Rest in Seven
Act.
(Source:   P.A.   103-721,   eff.   1-1-25;   104-2,   eff.   6-16-25;
104-455, eff. 12-12-25; revised 1-8-26.)


    Section 30-10. The Counties Code is amended by changing
Section 3-4014 as follows:


    (55 ILCS 5/3-4014)
    (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-300)
    Sec. 3-4014. Public Defender Fund.
    (a) (Blank).
    (b) The Public Defender Fund is created as a special fund
in the State treasury. All money in the Public Defender Fund
shall be used, subject to appropriation, by the Illinois
Supreme Court to provide funding to counties with a population
of 3,000,000 or less for public defenders and public defender
services pursuant to this Section 3-4014. Funding provided
from the State Public Defender Fund to a county under this
Section shall augment rather than replace county-level public
defense budgets.
(Source: P.A. 102-1104, eff. 12-6-22; 103-8, eff. 7-1-23.)


    (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-300)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Sec. 3-4014. Public Defender Fund.
    (a) (Blank).
    (b) The Public Defender Fund is created as a special fund
in the State treasury. All money in the Public Defender Fund
shall be used, subject to appropriation, by the State Public
Defender to provide funding to counties with a population of
3,000,000 or less for use by public defenders for public
defender   services    and     related   expenses    pursuant      to   this
Section    3-4014.    Funding    provided     from   the   State    Public
Defender Fund to a county under this Section shall augment
rather than replace county-level public defense budgets.
(Source: P.A. 103-8, eff. 7-1-23; 104-300, eff. 1-1-27.)


                                Article 35.


    Section 35-5. The Downstate Public Transportation Act is
amended by adding Article V as follows:


    (30 ILCS 740/Art. V heading new)
              ARTICLE V. DOWNSTATE GRANT ASSISTANCE


    (30 ILCS 740/5-5 new)
    Sec. 5-5. Definitions. In this Article, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise:
    "Department"       means      the    Illinois      Department        of
Transportation.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    "Eligible applicant" means local mass transit districts,
public transit providers, municipalities, counties, and other
public entities providing public transportation services in
Illinois     that   receive      assistance   through      the    Downstate
Operating Assistance Program established under this Act.


    (30 ILCS 740/5-10 new)
    Sec. 5-10. Downstate Reduced Fare Grant Program.
    (a) Subject to appropriation, the Department may establish
and administer the Downstate Reduced Fare Grant Program ("DRF
Program"). Under the DRF Program, the Department may award
grants to eligible applicants for the purpose of supporting
reduced fare programs for students enrolled in public school
and other students enrolled in public career centers or public
technical education centers administered by the State Board of
Education.
    (b) The Department shall award grants on a competitive
basis.
    (c) All expenditures related to the DRF Program shall
comply     with   Section   11    of   Article   IX   of    the   Illinois
Constitution.
    (d) The Department may adopt rules necessary to implement
and administer this Section.


    (30 ILCS 740/5-15 new)
    Sec.    5-15.   Downstate     Cooperative    Transportation      Grant
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Program.
    (a) Subject to appropriation, the Department may establish
and administer the Downstate Cooperative Transportation Grant
Program ("DCT Program"). Under the DCT Program, the Department
may award grants to eligible applicants to establish and fund
cooperative transportation programs in partnership with public
school districts, regional offices of education, public career
centers, or public technical education centers administered by
the State Board of Education.
    (b) The Department shall award grants on a competitive
basis.
    (c) All expenditures related to the DCT Program shall
comply     with    Section   11    of   Article    IX   of    the   Illinois
Constitution.
    (d) The Department may adopt rules necessary to implement
and administer this Section.


    (30 ILCS 740/5-20 new)
    Sec. 5-20. Grant uses and limitations.
    (a) Grants awarded under this Article may support:
         (1) fixed-route student transportation services open
    to the general public;
         (2) demand-response transportation services open to
    the general public;
         (3)      specialized     transportation    for      students   with
    disabilities during off-peak service hours;
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


           (4) vocational and               career education transportation
     routes open to the general public;
           (5)      transportation            planning,       scheduling,        and
     coordination activities; and
           (6)    acquisition         or     modification      of     vehicles   and
     related transportation infrastructure.
     (b) The Department and any eligible applicants who receive
a grant under this Article shall comply with all applicable
federal laws and regulations, including, but not limited to,
49   CFR     Part       605    and    related      federal     regulations.      The
Department        may    adopt       rules    necessary      to      implement   and
administer this Section.


     (30 ILCS 740/5-45 new)
     Sec.        5-45.        Emergency       rulemaking;         Department      of
Transportation; Downstate Public Transportation Act.
     (a)     To     provide          for     the   expeditious         and   timely
implementation of Section 5-10 of Article V of the Downstate
Public      Transportation           Act,    emergency       rules     implementing
Section 5-10 of the Downstate Public Transportation Act may be
adopted in accordance with Section 5-45 by the Department of
Transportation. The adoption of emergency rules authorized by
Section 5-45 and this Section is deemed to be necessary for the
public interest, safety, and welfare.
     (b)     To     provide          for     the   expeditious         and   timely
implementation of Section 5-15 of Article V of the Downstate
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Public     Transportation    Act,   emergency    rules    implementing
Section 5-15 of the Downstate Public Transportation Act may be
adopted in accordance with Section 5-45 by the Department of
Transportation. The adoption of emergency rules authorized by
Section 5-45 and this Section is deemed to be necessary for the
public interest, safety, and welfare.
    (c)     To     provide   for    the   expeditious     and   timely
implementation of Section 5-20 of Article V of the Downstate
Public     Transportation    Act,   emergency    rules    implementing
Section 5-20 of the Downstate Public Transportation Act may be
adopted in accordance with Section 5-45 by the Department of
Transportation. The adoption of emergency rules authorized by
Section 5-45 and this Section is deemed to be necessary for the
public interest, safety, and welfare.
    (d) This Section is repealed one year after the effective
date of this Section.


                              Article 40.


    Section 40-5. If and only if Senate Bill 315 of the 104th
General Assembly becomes law in the form in which it passed the
Senate on May 21, 2026, the Illinois Administrative Procedure
Act is amended by adding Section 5-45.71 as follows:


    (5 ILCS 100/5-45.71 new)
    Sec.         5-45.71.    Emergency      rulemaking;    Artificial
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Intelligence      Safety    Measures     Act.    To     provide    for    the
expeditious     and     timely   implementation       of   the    Artificial
Intelligence Safety Measures Act, emergency rules implementing
that Act may be adopted in accordance with Section 5-45 by the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency and Office of Homeland
Security   or     any    other   State    agency       essential    to    the
implementation of the Act. The adoption of emergency rules
authorized by Section 5-45 and this Section is deemed to be
necessary for the public interest, safety, and welfare.


    Section 40-10. If and only if Senate Bill 315 of the 104th
General Assembly becomes law in the form in which it passed the
Senate on May 21, 2026, the State Finance Act is amended by
adding Sections 5.1038 and 6z-149 as follows:


    (30 ILCS 105/5.1038 new)
    Sec. 5.1038. The AI Safety Measures Fund.


    (30 ILCS 105/6z-149 new)
    Sec. 6z-149. The AI Safety Measures Fund is established as
a special fund in the State treasury. The Fund shall receive
revenues   from    fees,    assessments,    and       civil   penalties    as
specified in the Artificial Intelligence Safety Measures Act.
The Fund may also receive deposits, transfers, or revenues
from any source, public or private, as otherwise authorized or
provided by law.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      Subject to appropriation, moneys held in the AI Safety
Measures Fund may be used by the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency and Office of Homeland Security, the Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation, and any other State
agency   essential     to   the   implementation    of   the   Artificial
Intelligence Safety Measures Act, to pay all costs relating to
implementation of the Artificial Intelligence Safety Measures
Act, including, but not limited to, all monitoring of large
frontier    developers      and   any   risks     associated    with    the
development and use of artificial intelligence, and for the
related operating expenses of any State agency essential to
the work required by the Act.
      In State Fiscal Year 2027 only, at the direction of the
Director   of   the    Illinois    Emergency    Management     Agency   and
Office of Homeland Security, the Comptroller shall direct and
the State Treasurer shall transfer from the AI Safety Measures
Fund to any other funds in the State treasury such amounts as
are    necessary      to    reimburse   any     expenditures     for    the
implementation of the Artificial Intelligence Safety Measures
Act.


      Section 40-15. If and only if Senate Bill 315 of the 104th
General Assembly becomes law in the form in which it passed the
Senate on May 21, 2026, the Artificial Intelligence Safety
Measures Act is amended by changing Sections 18 and 25 as
follows:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b



      (10400SB0315eng, Sec. 18)
      Sec. 18. Large frontier developer disclosure.
      (a)     Except    as      otherwise     provided          in     this     Section,
beginning January 1, 2027, no large frontier developer may
develop, deploy, or operate a frontier model, in whole or in
part    in    this     State,    without      having      a    current        disclosure
statement      filed     with    the     Agency     and       paying    the    required
disclosure fee in an amount set by rule.
      (b) The disclosure statement shall be filed in the form
and    the    manner    prescribed       by   the    Agency       on    the    Agency's
website and shall contain all the information required by the
Agency. It shall be renewed annually, whenever ownership of
the frontier model is transferred or whenever there is a
material change to the information reported in the previously
filed disclosure statement, whichever occurs earlier. Annual
disclosure statements and disclosure statement updates are
subject to the payment of fees as established by rule.
      (c) The disclosure statement shall identify:
             (1) the identity of the large frontier developer and
      all    names     under     which    such    large        frontier        developer
      conducts business;
             (2) the address of the principal place of business and
      the address of each office the large frontier developer
      maintains in this State;
             (3) in the event the large frontier developer or the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    ultimate parent of the large frontier developer is a
    privately or closely held company, a list of all persons
    or entities that beneficially own a 5% or greater interest
    in the large frontier developer at the time the disclosure
    statement is filed and a list of persons who formerly
    beneficially owned a 5% or greater interest in the owner
    or its predecessors in the preceding 5 years; in the event
    the owner or the ultimate parent is a publicly traded
    company, the owner shall file a list of all persons or
    entities that beneficially own a 50% or greater interest
    in the large frontier developer at the time of disclosure;
    and
          (4) the name and contact information of a point of
    contact, secondary contact, and tertiary contact for the
    large frontier developer; the point of contact shall be
    responsible for receiving inquiries relating to this Act
    from the Agency or other governmental entities.
    (d) Beginning July 1, 2026, the The Agency shall charge
and collect fees, in an amount set by rule, from large frontier
developers for the expenses of administering this Act, which
shall be nonrefundable unless otherwise indicated. Each large
frontier developer shall pay to the Agency its pro rata share
of the cost of administration of this Act, as estimated by the
Agency based on criteria established by rule, for the current
year and any deficit actually incurred in the administration
of the Act in prior years.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (e) If any person develops, deploys, or operates a large
frontier model in this State without a current disclosure
filed with the Agency as required by this Section, submits
false information in its disclosure or fails to timely pay any
assessment required by this Act, in addition to any other
penalty or liability that may be imposed under this Act, the
Agency may, after notice and hearing, levy civil penalties,
fees, and costs as follows:
        (1) a civil penalty of $1,000 for each day the person
    fails to file a disclosure as required by this Section or
    fails to correct false information to be deposited into
    the AI Safety Measures Fund; and
        (2) an amount equal to the assessments owed to be
    deposited into the AI Safety Measures Fund.
    (f) The Agency shall maintain and publish a list of large
frontier   developers   who     have   filed    disclosure    statements;
however,   the    publication    shall    not    include     the   contact
information set forth in subsection (c).
(Source: 10400SB0315eng.)


    (10400SB0315eng, Sec. 25)
    Sec. 25. Civil penalty.
    (a) A large frontier developer that fails to publish or
transmit a compliant document required to be published or
transmitted under this Act, makes a statement in violation of
subsection (f) of Section 10, fails to have a third party
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


perform an independent audit of compliance as required by
subsection (d) of Section 10, fails to report a critical
safety incident as required by Section 15, or fails to comply
with its own frontier AI framework shall be subject to a civil
penalty    in    an        amount    dependent      upon    the   severity     of   the
violation       that       does     not    exceed   $1,000,000     for   the    first
violation. For a subsequent violation, the civil penalty may
not exceed $3,000,000 per violation.
    (b) A civil penalty described in this Section shall be
recovered       in     a    civil     action     brought     exclusively     by     the
Attorney    General.          Any    civil      penalties    collected     from     the
enforcement of this Act shall be deposited into the Attorney
General     Court          Ordered        and   Voluntary    Compliance      Payment
Projects Fund or as directed by the Attorney General or the
courts.
    (c) The loss of value of equity does not count as damage to
or loss of property for the purposes of this Act.
    (d) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to establish a
private right of action associated with violations of this
Act.
(Source: 10400SB0315eng.)


                                      Article 45.


    Section 45-5. The Unified Code of Corrections is amended
by changing Section 3-2-2 as follows:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b



    (730 ILCS 5/3-2-2)
    Sec. 3-2-2. Powers and duties of the Department.
    (1)     In       addition       to      the    powers,          duties,        and
responsibilities which are otherwise provided by law, the
Department shall have the following powers:
          (a) To accept persons committed to it by the courts of
    this     State       for       care,      custody,         treatment,          and
    rehabilitation,         and    to    accept    federal       prisoners         and
    noncitizens over whom the Office of the Federal Detention
    Trustee is authorized to exercise the federal detention
    function for limited purposes and periods of time.
          (b) To develop and maintain reception and evaluation
    units     for      purposes     of      analyzing     the       custody        and
    rehabilitation needs of persons committed to it and to
    assign such persons to institutions and programs under its
    control or transfer them to other appropriate agencies. In
    consultation        with      the    Department     of     Alcoholism          and
    Substance Abuse (now the Department of Human Services),
    the Department of Corrections shall develop a master plan
    for the screening and evaluation of persons committed to
    its custody who have alcohol or drug abuse problems, and
    for     making     appropriate         treatment    available          to   such
    persons;     the    Department         shall   report      to    the    General
    Assembly on such plan not later than April 1, 1987. The
    maintenance       and   implementation         of   such    plan       shall    be
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    contingent upon the availability of funds.
        (b-1) To create and implement, on January 1, 2002, a
    pilot   program      to    establish     the      effectiveness     of
    pupillometer technology (the measurement of the pupil's
    reaction to light) as an alternative to a urine test for
    purposes of screening and evaluating persons committed to
    its custody who have alcohol or drug problems. The pilot
    program shall require the pupillometer technology to be
    used in at least one Department of Corrections facility.
    The Director may expand the pilot program to include an
    additional facility or         facilities as      he or she deems
    appropriate. A minimum of 4,000 tests shall be included in
    the pilot program. The Department must report to the
    General Assembly on the effectiveness of the program by
    January 1, 2003.
        (b-5) To develop, in consultation with the Illinois
    State Police, a program for tracking and evaluating each
    inmate from commitment through release for recording his
    or her gang affiliations, activities, or ranks.
        (b-10) To create and implement, on January 1, 2027, a
    pilot   program      to    establish     the      effectiveness     of
    long-acting       injectable    medications       for     opioid   use
    disorders     when      clinically   appropriate        for   persons
    committed    to   its    custody   who   suffer    from   opioid   use
    disorders.
        The pilot program shall provide long-acting injectable
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    medications     for     opioid    use     disorder,     when     clinically
    appropriate, to not fewer than 3,000 individuals in the
    custody of the Department and shall be implemented in at
    least one Department facility. The Director may expand the
    pilot     program     to     include    additional       facilities     and
    participants as he or she deems appropriate.
        To the extent clinically appropriate and permitted
    under applicable procurement and medical standards, the
    Department shall endeavor to use all United States Food
    and Drug Administration-approved long-acting injectable
    medications for opioid use disorder that are commercially
    available in an equitable and non-preferential manner as
    part of the pilot program.
        The Department shall design and operate the pilot
    program    in   accordance       with   established        and   nationally
    recognized clinical guidelines, protocols, and standards
    for the treatment of opioid use disorder using long-acting
    injectable medications.
        The    pilot      program     shall    be     funded    using     opioid
    settlement      funds       allocated     for    the    Department.     The
    Department shall not commence implementation of the pilot
    program    unless     and    until     sufficient      opioid    settlement
    funds have been secured through the Opioid Settlement
    Administration        as     approved     by     the    Illinois      Opioid
    Remediation     Advisory       Board    and     the    Governor's     Opioid
    Prevention      and    Recovery      Steering      Committee     to   fully
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    implement    the   program   and    to   ensure     that    individuals
    participating in the pilot program may receive the full
    course of treatment clinically indicated.
        The Department shall ensure that, prior to the release
    of a person participating in the pilot program, the person
    is connected to an appropriate provider or treatment site
    in the geographic region in which the person will reside
    after release, that an appointment for continued treatment
    is scheduled with that provider or site, and that relevant
    medical   and   treatment    information       is   shared      with      the
    receiving provider to support continuity of care.
        The   Department    shall      establish     and   publicly        post
    eligibility     criteria     and     a    selection        process        for
    participation in the pilot program. Eligibility criteria
    shall be based on clinical need, medical appropriateness,
    and operational considerations, consistent with nationally
    recognized clinical guidelines.
        The Department shall ensure that participation in the
    pilot program is offered in an equitable and transparent
    manner    across   facilities.      If   the    number     of   eligible
    individuals exceeds program capacity, the Department shall
    use a fair and objective selection methodology, which may
    include     prioritization   based       on    clinical     need     or    a
    randomized selection process.
        The Department shall document the basis for inclusion
    or non-inclusion of eligible individuals and shall make
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    aggregate information regarding eligibility and selection
    available to the General Assembly upon request.
        The    Department   shall    contract     with   an   independent
    research    organization,       public    university,      or      other
    qualified third-party evaluator to conduct an independent
    evaluation of the pilot program. The evaluation shall
    assess the effectiveness of the pilot program and shall
    include, at a minimum, analysis of the following metrics
    for individuals participating in the program:
              (1)   continuity     of   treatment       for   opioid    use
        disorder during incarceration and following release;
              (2)   post-release    connection     to    community-based
        treatment providers;
              (3)   rates   of    overdose,      including     fatal    and
        nonfatal overdose, following release;
              (4) rates of re-arrest, re-incarceration, or other
        recidivism outcomes;
              (5)   participant     engagement    with    treatment     and
        recovery services following release;
              (6)    institutional      safety     indicators       within
        participating facilities; and
              (7) the costs and cost-effectiveness of the pilot
        program.
        The Department shall provide the evaluator with access
    to relevant program and administrative data necessary to
    complete the evaluation, subject to applicable privacy
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    protections. The independent evaluator shall prepare a
    report summarizing the findings of the evaluation and
    shall submit the report to the Department and the General
    Assembly no later than January 1, 2029.
          (c) To maintain and administer all State correctional
    institutions     and    facilities      under   its     control     and    to
    establish new ones as needed. Pursuant to its power to
    establish new institutions and facilities, the Department
    may, with the written approval of the Governor, authorize
    the Department of Central Management Services to enter
    into an agreement of the type described in subsection (d)
    of Section 405-300 of the Department of Central Management
    Services    Law.    The      Department    shall        designate    those
    institutions which shall constitute the State Penitentiary
    System. The Department of Juvenile Justice shall maintain
    and    administer      all     State   youth    centers     pursuant       to
    subsection (d) of Section 3-2.5-20.
          Pursuant to its power to establish new institutions
    and    facilities,       the     Department       may    authorize        the
    Department of Central Management Services to accept bids
    from counties and municipalities for the construction,
    remodeling, or conversion of a structure to be leased to
    the Department of Corrections for the purposes of its
    serving as a correctional institution or facility. Such
    construction, remodeling, or conversion may be financed
    with   revenue     bonds     issued    pursuant    to    the   Industrial
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Building Revenue Bond Act by the municipality or county.
    The lease specified in a bid shall be for a term of not
    less than the time needed to retire any revenue bonds used
    to finance the project, but not to exceed 40 years. The
    lease may grant to the State the option to purchase the
    structure outright.
        Upon receipt of the bids, the Department may certify
    one or more of the bids and shall submit any such bids to
    the General Assembly for approval. Upon approval of a bid
    by a constitutional majority of both houses of the General
    Assembly, pursuant to joint resolution, the Department of
    Central Management Services may enter into an agreement
    with the county or municipality pursuant to such bid.
        (c-5)     To   build     and   maintain      regional   juvenile
    detention centers and to charge a per diem to the counties
    as established by the Department to defray the costs of
    housing each minor in a center. In this subsection (c-5),
    "juvenile detention center" means a facility to house
    minors during pendency of trial who have been transferred
    from proceedings under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987 to
    prosecutions under the criminal laws of this State in
    accordance with Section 5-805 of the Juvenile Court Act of
    1987, whether the transfer was by operation of law or
    permissive    under   that     Section.    The    Department   shall
    designate the counties to be served by each                 regional
    juvenile detention center.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        (d)   To   develop    and   maintain       programs       of   control,
    rehabilitation, and employment of committed persons within
    its institutions.
        (d-5) To provide a pre-release job preparation program
    for inmates at Illinois adult correctional centers.
        (d-10)     To   provide          educational        and    visitation
    opportunities to committed persons within its institutions
    through temporary access to content-controlled tablets
    that may be provided as a privilege to committed persons
    to induce or reward compliance.
        (e) To establish a system of supervision and guidance
    of committed persons in the community.
        (f) To establish in cooperation with the Department of
    Transportation to supply a sufficient number of prisoners
    for use by the Department of Transportation to clean up
    the trash and garbage along State, county, township, or
    municipal highways as designated by the Department of
    Transportation.     The    Department     of    Corrections,        at   the
    request of the Department of Transportation, shall furnish
    such prisoners at least annually for a period to be agreed
    upon between the Director of Corrections and the Secretary
    of Transportation. The prisoners used on this program
    shall   be   selected     by   the    Director     of    Corrections      on
    whatever basis he deems proper in consideration of their
    term, behavior and earned eligibility to participate in
    such program - where they will be outside of the prison
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    facility but still in the custody of the Department of
    Corrections. Prisoners convicted of first degree murder,
    or a Class X felony, or armed violence, or aggravated
    kidnapping,       or       criminal    sexual       assault,       aggravated
    criminal    sexual      abuse    or    a    subsequent     conviction      for
    criminal sexual abuse, or forcible detention, or arson, or
    a prisoner adjudged a Habitual Criminal shall not be
    eligible for selection to participate in such program. The
    prisoners shall remain as prisoners in the custody of the
    Department      of     Corrections         and    such   Department     shall
    furnish whatever security is necessary. The Department of
    Transportation shall furnish trucks and equipment for the
    highway cleanup program and personnel to supervise and
    direct the program. Neither the Department of Corrections
    nor the Department of Transportation shall replace any
    regular employee with a prisoner.
         (g) To maintain records of persons committed to it and
    to   establish       programs     of       research,      statistics,      and
    planning.
         (h)   To   investigate       the       grievances     of   any   person
    committed    to      the    Department      and    to    inquire    into   any
    alleged misconduct by employees or committed persons; and
    for these purposes it may issue subpoenas and compel the
    attendance of witnesses and the production of writings and
    papers, and may examine under oath any witnesses who may
    appear before it; to also investigate alleged violations
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    of a parolee's or             releasee's conditions of parole or
    release; and for this purpose it may issue subpoenas and
    compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of
    documents only if there is reason to believe that such
    procedures would provide evidence that such violations
    have occurred.
          If any person fails to obey a subpoena issued under
    this subsection, the Director may apply to any circuit
    court to secure compliance with the subpoena. The failure
    to comply with the order of the court issued in response
    thereto shall be punishable as contempt of court.
          (i) To appoint and remove the chief administrative
    officers,       and     administer          programs            of     training     and
    development      of    personnel           of       the    Department.      Personnel
    assigned by the Department to                         be responsible for the
    custody and control of committed persons or to investigate
    the alleged misconduct of committed persons or employees
    or    alleged    violations           of        a    parolee's        or   releasee's
    conditions of parole shall be conservators of the peace
    for those purposes, and shall have the full power of peace
    officers outside of the facilities of the Department in
    the   protection,           arrest,    retaking,               and    reconfining    of
    committed persons or where the exercise of such power is
    necessary   to        the    investigation                of   such    misconduct    or
    violations. This subsection shall not apply to persons
    committed to the Department of Juvenile Justice under the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Juvenile Court Act of 1987 on aftercare release.
          (j) To cooperate with other departments and agencies
    and     with       local    communities       for    the    development       of
    standards and programs for better correctional services in
    this State.
          (k) To administer all moneys and properties of the
    Department.
          (l)     To    report    annually    to        the    Governor    on    the
    committed       persons,      institutions,         and    programs     of   the
    Department.
          (l-5) (Blank).
          (m) To make all rules and regulations and exercise all
    powers and duties vested by law in the Department.
          (n)      To     establish       rules     and        regulations       for
    administering a system of sentence credits, established in
    accordance with Section 3-6-3, subject to review by the
    Prisoner Review Board.
          (o) To administer the distribution of funds from the
    State treasury Treasury to reimburse counties where State
    penal       institutions       are    located       for    the   payment      of
    assistant state's attorneys' salaries under Section 4-2001
    of the Counties Code.
          (p) To exchange information with the Department of
    Human Services and the Department of Healthcare and Family
    Services for the purpose of verifying living arrangements
    and     for    other       purposes   directly        connected       with   the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    administration of this Code and the Illinois Public Aid
    Code.
        (q) To establish a diversion program.
        The program shall provide a structured environment for
    selected technical parole or mandatory supervised release
    violators and committed persons who have violated the
    rules governing their conduct while in work release. This
    program     shall       not   apply     to      those   persons         who     have
    committed     a   new     offense       while     serving        on     parole    or
    mandatory supervised release or while committed to work
    release.
        Elements of the program shall include, but shall not
    be limited to, the following:
              (1)     The    staff     of      a   diversion     facility          shall
        provide       supervision         in       accordance        with    required
        objectives set by the facility.
              (2) Participants shall be required to maintain
        employment.
              (3) Each participant shall pay for room and board
        at the facility on a sliding-scale basis according to
        the participant's income.
              (4) Each participant shall:
                    (A)      provide        restitution         to        victims     in
              accordance with any court order;
                    (B)      provide        financial       support           to     his
              dependents; and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


                    (C) make appropriate payments toward any other
              court-ordered obligations.
              (5)    Each    participant      shall     complete        community
        service in addition to employment.
              (6)    Participants        shall        take     part     in    such
        counseling, educational, and other programs as the
        Department may deem appropriate.
              (7) Participants shall submit to drug and alcohol
        screening.
              (8)    The     Department       shall          promulgate      rules
        governing the administration of the program.
        (r)    To    enter     into     intergovernmental             cooperation
    agreements under which persons in the custody of the
    Department       may     participate         in     a      county        impact
    incarceration program established under Section 3-6038 or
    3-15003.5 of the Counties Code.
        (r-5) (Blank).
        (r-10) To systematically and routinely identify with
    respect to each streetgang active within the correctional
    system:    (1)    each     active       gang;      (2)     every     existing
    inter-gang affiliation or alliance; and (3) the current
    leaders    in    each    gang.    The    Department        shall    promptly
    segregate leaders from inmates who belong to their gangs
    and allied gangs. "Segregate" means no physical contact
    and, to the extent possible under the conditions and space
    available at the correctional facility, prohibition of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    visual and sound communication. For the purposes of this
    paragraph (r-10), "leaders" means persons who:
             (i) are members of a criminal streetgang;
             (ii) with respect to other individuals within the
         streetgang,          occupy     a      position        of     organizer,
         supervisor,      or     other       position      of    management      or
         leadership; and
             (iii)      are    actively       and    personally       engaged    in
         directing,      ordering,           authorizing,        or    requesting
         commission     of     criminal       acts    by   others,     which    are
         punishable as a felony, in furtherance of streetgang
         related    activity      both       within    and      outside    of   the
         Department of Corrections.
    "Streetgang", "gang", and "streetgang related" have the
    meanings ascribed to them in Section 10 of the Illinois
    Streetgang Terrorism Omnibus Prevention Act.
         (s) To operate a super-maximum security institution,
    in   order     to   manage     and       supervise       inmates      who   are
    disruptive or dangerous and provide for the safety and
    security of the staff and the other inmates.
         (t) To monitor any unprivileged conversation or any
    unprivileged communication, whether in person or by mail,
    telephone, or other means, between an inmate who, before
    commitment to the Department, was a member of an organized
    gang and any other person without the need to show cause or
    satisfy any other requirement of law before beginning the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    monitoring,          except       as       constitutionally         required.       The
    monitoring may be by video, voice, or other method of
    recording       or     by       any    other    means.        As    used    in    this
    subdivision        (1)(t),         "organized      gang"       has    the    meaning
    ascribed to it in Section 10 of the Illinois Streetgang
    Terrorism Omnibus Prevention Act.
         As   used       in     this      subdivision       (1)(t),      "unprivileged
    conversation"         or        "unprivileged      communication"           means    a
    conversation or communication that is not protected by any
    privilege recognized by law or by decision, rule, or order
    of the Illinois Supreme Court.
         (u) To establish a Women's and Children's Pre-release
    Community Supervision Program for the purpose of providing
    housing      and     services          to    eligible    female       inmates,       as
    determined by the Department, and their newborn and young
    children.
         (u-5) To issue an order, whenever a person committed
    to the Department absconds or absents himself or herself,
    without authority to do so, from any facility or program
    to   which    he      or    she       is    assigned.    The       order    shall    be
    certified       by        the     Director,       the     Supervisor         of     the
    Apprehension Unit, or any person duly designated by the
    Director, with the seal of the Department affixed. The
    order shall be directed to all sheriffs, coroners, and
    police officers, or to any particular person named in the
    order.    Any      order        issued      pursuant     to    this    subdivision
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (1)(u-5) shall be sufficient warrant for the officer or
    person   named   in    the    order   to   arrest   and   deliver   the
    committed person to the proper correctional officials and
    shall be executed the same as criminal process.
         (u-6) To appoint a point of contact person who shall
    receive suggestions, complaints, or other requests to the
    Department from visitors to Department institutions or
    facilities and from other members of the public.
         (u-7) To collaborate with the Department of Human
    Services and other State agencies to develop and implement
    screening and follow-up protocols for intake and reentry
    personnel and contractors on identification and response
    to   Department-involved         individuals        who   demonstrate
    indications      of     past     labor      or      sex   trafficking
    victimization, criminal sexual exploitation or a history
    of involvement in the sex trade that may put them at risk
    of human trafficking. Protocols should include assessment
    and provision of pre-release and post-release housing,
    legal, medical, mental health and substance-use disorder
    treatment services and recognize the specialized needs of
    victims of human trafficking.
         (u-8) To provide statewide training for Department of
    Corrections intake and reentry personnel and contractors
    on   identification     and    response     to   Department-involved
    individuals      who     demonstrate       indications      of      past
    trafficking victimization or child sexual exploitation
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    that put them at risk of human trafficking.
          (u-9) To offer access to specialized services for
    Department-involved           individuals        within    the    care   that
    demonstrate indications of past trafficking victimization
    or child sexual exploitation that put them at risk of
    trafficking.       As   used    in   this    subsection,         "specialized
    services"    means       substance    use    substance-use          disorder,
    mental   health,        medical,     case-management,        housing,     and
    other    support        services     by     Department      employees      or
    contractors        who        have     completed          victim-centered,
    trauma-informed training specifically designed to address
    the complex psychological and or physical needs of victims
    of human trafficking, sexual exploitation, or a history of
    involvement with the sex trade.
          (v) To do all other acts necessary to carry out the
    provisions of this Chapter.
    (2) The Department of Corrections shall by January 1,
1998, consider building and operating a correctional facility
within 100 miles of a county of over 2,000,000 inhabitants,
especially a facility designed to house juvenile participants
in the impact incarceration program.
    (3)   When   the    Department       lets    bids    for    contracts     for
medical   services     to    be    provided     to    persons    committed     to
Department facilities by a health maintenance organization,
medical service corporation, or other health care provider,
the bid may only be let to a health care provider that has
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


obtained an irrevocable letter of credit or performance bond
issued by a company whose bonds have an investment grade or
higher rating by a bond rating organization.
     (3.5) If the Department has a contract with a pharmacy
benefit manager or a contract with an insurance company,
health   maintenance     organization,     limited     health     service
organization, administrative services organization, or any
other managed care entity or health insurance issuer where a
pharmacy benefit manager administers the provider's coverage
of, payment for, or formulary design for drugs necessary to
safeguard the minor's life or health, the contract with the
pharmacy benefit manager and the pharmacy benefit manager's
activities shall be subject to Article XXXIIB of the Illinois
Insurance Code and the authority of the Director of Insurance
to enforce those provisions. The provider shall have all the
rights of a plan sponsor under those provisions.
     (4) When the Department lets bids for contracts for food
or   commissary     services     to   be   provided    to    Department
facilities, the bid may only be let to a food or commissary
services provider that has obtained an irrevocable letter of
credit or performance bond issued by a company whose bonds
have an investment grade or higher rating by a bond rating
organization.
     (5) On and after the date 6 months after August 16, 2013
(the effective date of Public Act 98-488), as provided in the
Executive   Order   1   (2012)   Implementation      Act,   all   of   the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


powers, duties, rights, and responsibilities related to State
healthcare purchasing under this Code that were transferred
from    the   Department      of   Corrections     to    the   Department    of
Healthcare and Family Services by Executive Order 3 (2005) are
transferred back to the Department of Corrections; however,
powers, duties, rights, and responsibilities related to State
healthcare purchasing under this Code that were exercised by
the Department of Corrections before the effective date of
Executive Order 3 (2005) but that pertain to individuals
resident in facilities operated by the Department of Juvenile
Justice are transferred to the Department of Juvenile Justice.
    (6) The Department of Corrections shall provide lactation
or nursing mothers rooms for personnel of the Department. The
rooms shall be provided in each facility of the Department
that employs nursing mothers. Each individual lactation room
must:
          (i) contain doors that lock;
          (ii) have an "Occupied" sign for each door;
          (iii)   contain      electrical    outlets      for   plugging     in
    breast pumps;
          (iv) have sufficient lighting and ventilation;
          (v) contain comfortable chairs;
          (vi) contain a countertop or table for all necessary
    supplies for lactation;
          (vii) contain a wastebasket and chemical cleaners to
    wash      one's   hands    and   to   clean    the    surfaces   of     the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    countertop or table;
         (viii) have a functional sink;
         (ix) have a minimum of one refrigerator for storage of
    the breast milk; and
         (x) receive routine daily maintenance.
(Source:   P.A.      103-834,      eff.   1-1-25;     104-27,   eff.      1-1-26;
104-159, eff. 1-1-26; revised 11-21-25.)


    Section 45-10. The Illinois Emergency Management Agency
Act is amended by changing Section 5 as follows:


    (20 ILCS 3305/5) (from Ch. 127, par. 1055)
    Sec. 5. Illinois Emergency Management Agency.
    (a) There is created within the executive branch of the
State Government an Illinois Emergency Management Agency and a
Director of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency, herein
called the "Director" who shall be the head thereof. The
Director shall be appointed by the Governor, with the advice
and consent of the Senate, and shall serve for a term of 2
years   beginning      on    the    third   Monday     in    January      of   the
odd-numbered year, and until a successor is appointed and has
qualified;    except        that   the    term   of    the    first    Director
appointed under this Act shall expire on the third Monday in
January,     1989.    The     Director      shall     not    hold   any    other
remunerative public office. For terms beginning after January
18, 2019 (the effective date of Public Act 100-1179) and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


before January 16, 2023, the annual salary of the Director
shall   be    as   provided      in      Section    5-300    of   the   Civil
Administrative Code of Illinois. Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, for terms beginning on or after January 16,
2023, the Director shall receive an annual salary of $180,000
or as set by the Governor, whichever is higher. On July 1,
2023,   and   on   each   July     1    thereafter,    the   Director   shall
receive an increase in salary based on a cost of living
adjustment as authorized by Senate Joint Resolution 192 of the
86th General Assembly.
    For terms beginning on or after January 16, 2023, the
Assistant Director of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency
shall receive an annual salary of $156,600 or as set by the
Governor, whichever is higher. On July 1, 2023, and on each
July 1 thereafter, the Assistant Director shall receive an
increase in salary based on a cost of living adjustment as
authorized by Senate Joint Resolution 192 of the 86th General
Assembly.
    (b) The Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall obtain,
under   the   provisions      of       the   Personnel   Code,    technical,
clerical, stenographic and other administrative personnel, and
may make expenditures within the appropriation therefor as may
be necessary to carry out the purpose of this Act. The agency
created by this Act is intended to be a successor to the agency
created under the Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster
Agency Act of 1975 and the personnel, equipment, records, and
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


appropriations of that agency are transferred to the successor
agency as of June 30, 1988 (the effective date of this Act).
    (c) The Director, subject to the direction and control of
the Governor, shall be the executive head of the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency and the State Emergency Response
Commission and shall be responsible under the direction of the
Governor,     for    carrying       out     the       program       for    emergency
management of this State. The Director shall also maintain
liaison     and     cooperate       with        the    emergency          management
organizations       of   this    State    and     other      states     and   of   the
federal government.
    (d) The Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall take an
integral part in the development and revision of political
subdivision       emergency       operations          plans     prepared       under
paragraph (f) of Section 10. To this end it shall employ or
otherwise secure the services of professional and technical
personnel    capable      of     providing      expert       assistance       to   the
emergency    services      and    disaster      agencies.       These      personnel
shall consult with emergency services and disaster agencies on
a regular basis and shall make field examinations of the
areas, circumstances, and conditions that particular political
subdivision emergency operations plans are intended to apply.
    (e) The Illinois Emergency Management Agency and political
subdivisions      shall    be     encouraged          to     form    an    emergency
management advisory committee composed of private and public
personnel    representing        the     emergency         management     phases    of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. The Local
Emergency Planning Committee, as created under the Illinois
Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, shall
serve as an advisory committee to the emergency services and
disaster agency or agencies serving within the boundaries of
that Local Emergency Planning Committee planning district for:
        (1)   the   development       of     emergency   operations    plan
    provisions for hazardous chemical emergencies; and
        (2) the assessment of emergency response capabilities
    related to hazardous chemical emergencies.
    (f) The Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall:
        (1)     Coordinate     the    overall     emergency    management
    program of the State.
        (2)   Cooperate      with    local    governments,    the   federal
    government, and any public or private agency or entity in
    achieving any purpose of this Act and in implementing
    emergency       management         programs      for      mitigation,
    preparedness, response, and recovery.
        (2.5) Develop a comprehensive emergency preparedness
    and response plan for any nuclear accident in accordance
    with Section 65 of the Nuclear Safety Law of 2004 and in
    development of the Illinois Nuclear Safety Preparedness
    program in accordance with Section              8 of     the Illinois
    Nuclear Safety Preparedness Act.
        (2.6) Coordinate with the Department of Public Health
    with respect to planning for and responding to public
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    health emergencies.
        (3) Prepare, for issuance by the Governor, executive
    orders, proclamations, and regulations as necessary or
    appropriate in coping with disasters.
        (4) Promulgate rules and requirements for political
    subdivision     emergency     operations        plans    that     are    not
    inconsistent    with   and    are    at    least    as    stringent        as
    applicable federal laws and regulations.
        (5) Review and approve, in accordance with Illinois
    Emergency Management Agency rules, emergency operations
    plans for those political subdivisions required to have an
    emergency services and disaster agency pursuant to this
    Act.
        (5.5)     Promulgate     rules   and     requirements         for    the
    political     subdivision     emergency      management         exercises,
    including, but not limited to, exercises of the emergency
    operations plans.
        (5.10) Review, evaluate, and approve, in accordance
    with Illinois Emergency Management Agency rules, political
    subdivision     emergency     management        exercises       for     those
    political   subdivisions      required       to   have    an     emergency
    services and disaster agency pursuant to this Act.
        (6)   Determine    requirements        of     the    State    and    its
    political   subdivisions      for    food,      clothing,       and     other
    necessities in event of a disaster.
        (7) Establish a register of persons with types of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    emergency management training and skills in mitigation,
    preparedness, response, and recovery.
        (8) Establish a register of government and private
    response resources available for use in a disaster.
        (9) Expand the Earthquake Awareness Program and its
    efforts to distribute earthquake preparedness materials to
    schools, political subdivisions, community groups, civic
    organizations, and the media. Emphasis will be placed on
    those areas of the State most at risk from an earthquake.
    Maintain the list of all school districts, hospitals,
    airports, power plants, including nuclear power plants,
    lakes, dams, emergency response facilities of all types,
    and all other major public or private structures which are
    at the greatest risk of damage from earthquakes under
    circumstances where the damage would cause subsequent harm
    to the surrounding communities and residents.
        (10)    Disseminate      all   information,      completely    and
    without delay, on water levels for rivers and streams and
    any other data pertaining to potential flooding supplied
    by the Division of Water Resources within the Department
    of Natural Resources to all political subdivisions to the
    maximum extent possible.
        (11) Develop agreements, if feasible, with medical
    supply and equipment firms to supply resources as are
    necessary     to   respond   to    an   earthquake    or   any    other
    disaster as defined in this Act. These resources will be
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    made available upon notifying the vendor of the disaster.
    Payment for the resources will be           in accordance with
    Section 7 of this Act. The Illinois Department of Public
    Health shall determine which resources will be required
    and requested.
         (11.5) In coordination with the Illinois State Police,
    develop and implement a community outreach program to
    promote awareness among the State's parents and children
    of child abduction prevention and response.
         (12) Out of funds appropriated for these purposes,
    award capital and non-capital grants to Illinois hospitals
    or health care facilities located outside of a city with a
    population in excess of 1,000,000 to be used for purposes
    that include, but are not limited to, preparing to respond
    to   mass   casualties      and   disasters,      maintaining    and
    improving     patient   safety    and   quality     of   care,   and
    protecting the confidentiality of patient information. No
    single   grant    for   a   capital   expenditure    shall   exceed
    $300,000. No single grant for a non-capital expenditure
    shall exceed $100,000. In awarding such grants, preference
    shall be given to       hospitals that serve a significant
    number of Medicaid recipients, but do not qualify for
    disproportionate share hospital adjustment payments under
    the Illinois Public Aid Code. To receive such a grant, a
    hospital or health care facility must provide funding of
    at least 50% of the cost of the project for which the grant
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


     is being requested. In awarding such grants the Illinois
     Emergency           Management       Agency     shall      consider       the
     recommendations of the Illinois Hospital Association.
            (13) Do all other things necessary, incidental or
     appropriate for the implementation of this Act.
     (g) The Illinois Emergency Management Agency is authorized
to   make     grants      to   various    higher    education    institutions,
public      K-12    school     districts,    area    vocational      centers    as
designated by the State Board of Education, inter-district
special education cooperatives, regional safe schools, and
nonpublic K-12 schools for safety and security improvements.
For the purpose of this subsection (g), "higher education
institution" means a public university, a public community
college,      or    an    independent,      not-for-profit      or     for-profit
higher education institution located in this State. Grants
made under this subsection (g) shall be paid out of moneys
appropriated for that purpose from the Build Illinois Bond
Fund. The Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall adopt
rules    to    implement       this   subsection     (g).    These     rules   may
specify: (i) the manner of applying for grants; (ii) project
eligibility requirements; (iii) restrictions on the use of
grant moneys; (iv) the manner in which the various higher
education institutions must account for the use of grant
moneys;       and   (v)    any    other    provision    that     the    Illinois
Emergency Management Agency determines to be necessary or
useful for the administration of this subsection (g).
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      (g-5)    The        Illinois       Emergency          Management       Agency     is
authorized     to        make   grants       to    not-for-profit       organizations
which are exempt from federal income taxation under section
501(c)(3) of the Federal Internal Revenue Code for eligible
security      improvements            that        assist     the     organization       in
preventing, preparing for, or responding to threats, attacks,
or acts of terrorism. To be eligible for a grant under the
program, the Agency must determine that the organization is at
a high risk of being subject to threats, attacks, or acts of
terrorism      based       on   the    organization's          profile,       ideology,
mission,      or    beliefs.       Eligible        security        improvements      shall
include all eligible preparedness activities under the federal
Nonprofit Security Grant Program, including, but not limited
to, physical security upgrades, security training exercises,
preparedness training exercises, contracting with security
personnel, and any other security upgrades deemed eligible by
the     Director.        Eligible      security        improvements          shall    not
duplicate, in part or in whole, a project included under any
awarded federal grant or in a pending federal application. The
Director      shall       establish         procedures       and     forms    by     which
applicants         may     apply      for     a     grant     and     procedures      for
distributing grants to recipients. Any security improvements
awarded shall remain at the physical property listed in the
grant    application,           unless       authorized       by     Agency    rule     or
approved      by    the    Agency      in     writing.       The    procedures       shall
require each applicant to do the following:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        (1)    identify     and   substantiate     prior    or   current
    threats,     attacks,   or    acts   of   terrorism    against   the
    not-for-profit organization;
        (2) indicate the symbolic or strategic value of one or
    more sites that renders the site a possible target of a
    threat, attack, or act of terrorism;
        (3) discuss potential consequences to the organization
    if the site is damaged, destroyed, or disrupted by a
    threat, attack, or act of terrorism;
        (4) describe how the grant will be used to integrate
    organizational preparedness with broader State and local
    preparedness efforts, as described by the Agency in each
    Notice of Opportunity for Funding;
        (5) submit (i) a vulnerability assessment conducted by
    experienced     security,     law    enforcement,      or    military
    personnel,     or   conducted    using    an   Agency-approved    or
    federal Nonprofit Security Grant Program self-assessment
    tool, and (ii) a description of how the grant award will be
    used to address the vulnerabilities identified in the
    assessment; and
        (6) submit any other relevant information as may be
    required by the Director.
    The Agency is authorized to use funds appropriated for the
grant program described in this subsection (g-5) to administer
the program. Any Agency Notice of Opportunity for Funding,
proposed or final rulemaking, guidance, training opportunity,
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


or    other    resource       related    to   the    grant       program    must    be
published on the Agency's publicly available website, and any
announcements related to funding shall be shared with all
State legislative offices, the Governor's office, emergency
services and disaster agencies mandated or required pursuant
to subsections (b) through (d) of Section 10, and any other
State    agencies        as   determined      by    the    Agency.      Subject     to
appropriation, the grant application period shall be open for
no less than 45 calendar days during the first application
cycle each fiscal year, unless the Agency determines that a
shorter period is necessary to avoid conflicts with the annual
federal       Nonprofit       Security     Grant     Program      funding    cycle.
Additional application cycles may be conducted during the same
fiscal year, subject to availability of funds. Upon request,
Agency    staff      shall     provide     reasonable       assistance      to     any
applicant in completing a grant application or meeting a
post-award requirement.
      In addition to any advance payment rules or procedures
adopted       by   the   Agency,     the    Agency       shall    adopt    rules    or
procedures by which grantees under this subsection (g-5) may
receive a working capital advance of initial start-up costs
and up to 2 months of program expenses, not to exceed 25% of
the total award amount, if, during the application process,
the   grantee      demonstrates      a     need    for    funds    to   commence    a
project.       The       remaining       funds     must     be     paid     through
reimbursement after the grantee presents sufficient supporting
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


documentation of expenditures for eligible activities.
     (g-6) The Illinois Emergency Management Agency and Office
of Homeland Security is authorized to make grants to small
businesses for eligible security improvements that assist the
small business in preventing, preparing for, or responding to
threats,   attacks,   or   acts    of    terrorism.    As     used   in   this
subsection (g-6), "small business" means a small business
concern, as defined in Section 3 of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 632), that maintains its principal place of business in
this State. "High Risk", for the purposes of this subsection,
means that there is an elevated or extreme probability that
the small business will encounter threats, attacks, or acts of
terrorism due to their profile, ideology, mission, or beliefs
and failure to take adequate security measures will result in
the increased odds of injury to the public, loss of life, or
destruction to property.
     To be eligible for a grant under the program, the Agency
must determine that the small business is at a high risk of
being subject to threats, attacks, or acts of terrorism based
on   the   small   business's      profile,    ideology,       mission,    or
beliefs.   Eligible   security      improvements      shall    include    all
eligible preparedness activities under the federal Nonprofit
Security   Grant   Program,       including,    but    not     limited    to,
physical   security   upgrades,         security   training      exercises,
preparedness training exercises, contracting with security
personnel, and any other security upgrades deemed eligible by
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the     Director.      Eligible       security    improvements         shall      not
duplicate, in part or in whole, a project included under any
awarded federal grant or in a pending federal application. The
Director     shall     establish        procedures     and    forms       by    which
applicants       may    apply     for     a    grant   and     procedures         for
distributing grants to recipients. Any security improvements
awarded shall remain at the physical property listed in the
grant    application,       unless       authorized     by    Agency      rule      or
approved by the Agency in writing.
      The procedures shall require each applicant to do the
following:
          (1)     identify      and     substantiate      prior      or        current
      threats, attacks, or acts of terrorism against the small
      business;
          (2) indicate the symbolic or strategic value of one or
      more sites that renders the site a possible target of a
      threat, attack, or act of terrorism;
          (3)     discuss    potential         consequences     to     the      small
      business if the site is damaged, destroyed, or disrupted
      by a threat, attack, or act of terrorism;
          (4) describe how the grant will be used to integrate
      business     preparedness         with    broader      State     and      local
      preparedness efforts, as described by the Agency in each
      Notice of Opportunity for Funding;
          (5) submit a vulnerability assessment, conducted by
      experienced      security,        law     enforcement,      or       military
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


     personnel,      or    conducted    using     an    Agency-approved      or
     federal Nonprofit Security Grant Program self-assessment
     tool, and a description of how the grant award will be used
     to   address         the   vulnerabilities        identified    in     the
     assessment; and
          (6) submit any other relevant information as may be
     required by the Director.
     The Agency is authorized to use funds appropriated for the
grant program described in this subsection (g-6) to administer
the program. Any Agency Notice of Opportunity for Funding,
proposed or final rulemaking, guidance, training opportunity,
or   other   resource       related    to   the   grant   program    must    be
published on the Agency's publicly available website, and any
announcements related to funding shall be shared with all
State legislative offices, the Governor's office, emergency
services and disaster agencies mandated or required pursuant
to subsections (b) through (d) of Section 10, and any other
State agencies as determined by the Agency.
     Subject to appropriation, the grant application period
shall be open for no less than 45 calendar days during the
first application cycle each fiscal year, unless the Agency
determines    that    a     shorter    period     is   necessary    to    avoid
conflicts with the annual federal Nonprofit Security Grant
Program funding cycle. Additional application cycles may be
conducted during the same fiscal year, subject to availability
of funds.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      Upon     request,     Agency       staff     shall     provide       reasonable
assistance to any applicant in completing a grant application
or meeting a post-award requirement.
      In addition to any advance payment rules or procedures
adopted       by   the   Agency,     the    Agency       shall     adopt    rules    or
procedures by which grantees under this subsection (g-6) may
receive a working capital advance of initial start-up costs
and up to 2 months of program expenses, not to exceed 25% of
the total award amount, if, during the application process,
the   grantee       demonstrates     a     need    for     funds    to    commence   a
project.       The       remaining       funds     must      be     paid     through
reimbursement after the grantee presents sufficient supporting
documentation of expenditures for eligible activities.
      (h) Except as provided in Section 17.5 of this Act, any
moneys received by the Agency from donations or sponsorships
unrelated      to    a   disaster    shall        be   deposited     into     in    the
Emergency Planning and Training Fund and used by the Agency,
subject to appropriation, to effectuate planning and training
activities. Any moneys received by the Agency from donations
during    a    disaster     and    intended       for     disaster       response    or
recovery shall be deposited into the Disaster Response and
Recovery Fund and used for disaster response and recovery
pursuant to the Disaster Relief Act.
      (i) The Illinois Emergency Management Agency may by rule
assess       and    collect    reasonable          fees     for     attendance       at
Agency-sponsored conferences to enable the Agency to carry out
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the requirements of this Act. Any moneys received under this
subsection shall be deposited into in the Emergency Planning
and     Training   Fund    and    used   by     the    Agency,      subject    to
appropriation, for planning and training activities.
      (j) The Illinois Emergency Management Agency is authorized
to make grants to other State agencies, public universities,
units     of   local      government,     and        statewide   mutual       aid
organizations to enhance statewide emergency preparedness and
response.
      (k) Subject to appropriation from the Emergency Planning
and Training Fund, the Illinois Emergency Management Agency
and Office of Homeland Security shall obtain training services
and support for local emergency services and support for local
emergency      services     and   disaster      agencies      for     training,
exercises, and equipment related to carbon dioxide pipelines
and     sequestration,     and,   subject       to    the   availability       of
funding, shall provide $5,000 per year to the Illinois Fire
Service Institute for first responder training required under
Section 4-615 of the Public Utilities Act. Amounts in the
Emergency Planning and Training Fund will be used by the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency and Office of Homeland
Security for administrative costs incurred in carrying out the
requirements of this subsection. To carry out the purposes of
this subsection, the Illinois Emergency Management Agency and
Office    of   Homeland     Security     may    accept      moneys    from    all
authorized sources into the Emergency Planning and Training
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Fund, including, but not limited to, transfers from the Carbon
Dioxide   Sequestration        Administrative         Fund   and    the   Public
Utility Fund.
    (l)   The     Agency     shall    do   all   other   things     necessary,
incidental, or appropriate for the implementation of this Act,
including    the    adoption     of    rules     in   accordance     with   the
Illinois Administrative Procedure Act.
(Source: P.A. 103-418, eff. 1-1-24; 103-588, eff. 1-1-25;
103-651, eff. 7-18-24; 103-999, eff. 1-1-25; 104-417, eff.
8-15-25.)


                                Article 50.


    Section 50-5. If and only if House Bill 5551 of the 104th
General Assembly becomes law in the form in which it passed
both houses on May 28, 2026, then the School Code is amended by
changing Sections 14-7.02 and 14-7.03 as follows:


    (105 ILCS 5/14-7.02) (from Ch. 122, par. 14-7.02)
    Sec. 14-7.02. Children attending private special education
schools, separate public special education day schools, public
out-of-state schools, public school residential facilities, or
private special education facilities.
    (a)     The    General    Assembly      recognizes       that   non-public
schools or special education facilities provide an important
service in the educational system in Illinois.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


      (b) If a student's individualized education program (IEP)
team determines that because of his or her disability the
special education program of a district is unable to meet the
needs of the child and the child attends a non-public school or
special education facility, a public out-of-state school or a
special education facility owned and operated by a county
government unit that provides special educational services
required      by    the     child     and   is    in     compliance      with   the
appropriate rules and regulations of the State Superintendent
of Education, the school district in which the child is a
resident shall pay the actual cost of tuition for special
education and related services provided during the regular
school term and during the summer school term if the child's
educational        needs    so   require,     excluding      room,    board     and
transportation costs charged the child by that non-public
school   or    special      education       facility,     public   out-of-state
school or county special education facility, or $4,500 per
year, whichever is less, and shall provide him any necessary
transportation. "Nonpublic special education facility" shall
include a residential facility, within or without the State of
Illinois,      which       provides     special    education       and     related
services to meet the needs of the child by utilizing private
schools or public schools, whether located on the site or off
the   site    of    the     residential      facility.      Resident      district
financial responsibility and reimbursement applies for both
nonpublic special education facilities that are approved by
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the State Board of Education pursuant to 23 Ill. Adm. Code 401
or   other    applicable        laws     or      rules   and     for     emergency
residential     placements         in    nonpublic        special        education
facilities    that   are    not       approved     by    the    State    Board    of
Education     pursuant     to    23     Ill.     Adm.    Code    401     or   other
applicable laws or rules, subject to the requirements of this
Section.
     (c) Prior to the placement of a child in an out-of-state
special education residential facility, the school district
must refer to the child or the child's parent or guardian the
option to place the child in a special education residential
facility located within this State, if any, that provides
treatment and services comparable to those provided by the
out-of-state     special        education        residential     facility.       The
school district must review annually the placement of a child
in an out-of-state special education residential facility. As
a part of the review, the school district must refer to the
child or the child's parent or guardian the option to place the
child in a comparable special education residential facility
located within this State, if any.
     (c-5) Before a provider that operates a nonpublic special
education facility terminates a student's placement in that
facility, the provider must request an IEP meeting from the
contracting     school     district.        If    the    provider       elects    to
terminate the student's placement following the IEP meeting,
the provider must give written notice to this effect to the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


parent or guardian, the contracting public school district,
and the State Board of Education no later than 20 business days
before the date of termination, unless the health and safety
of any student are endangered. The notice must include the
detailed reasons for the termination and any actions taken to
address the reason for the termination.
    (d) Payments shall be made by the resident school district
to the entity providing the educational services, whether the
entity is the nonpublic special education facility or the
school district wherein the facility is located, no less than
once per quarter, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the
parties.
    (e) A school district may residentially place a student in
a nonpublic special education facility providing educational
services, but not approved by the State Board of Education
pursuant to 23 Ill. Adm. Code 401 or other applicable laws or
rules, provided that the State Board of Education provides an
emergency     and   student-specific      approval    for   residential
placement. The State Board of Education shall promptly, within
10 days after the request, approve a request for emergency and
student-specific approval for residential placement if the
following    have   been   demonstrated    to   the   State   Board   of
Education:
        (1) the facility demonstrates appropriate licensure of
    teachers for the student population;
        (2)     the    facility    demonstrates        age-appropriate
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    curriculum;
         (3) the facility provides enrollment and attendance
    data;
         (4) the facility demonstrates the ability to implement
    the child's IEP; and
         (5) the school district demonstrates that it made good
    faith efforts to residentially place the student in an
    approved facility, but no approved facility has accepted
    the student or has availability for immediate residential
    placement of the student.
A resident school district may also submit such proof to the
State Board of Education as may be required for its student.
The State Board of Education may not unreasonably withhold
approval once satisfactory proof is provided to the State
Board.
    (f) If an impartial due process hearing officer who is
contracted by the State Board of Education pursuant to this
Article orders placement of a student with a disability in a
residential facility that is not approved by the State Board
of Education, then, for purposes of this Section, the facility
shall be deemed approved for placement and school district
payments and State reimbursements shall be made accordingly.
    (g) Emergency residential placement in a facility approved
pursuant to subsection (e) or (f) may continue to be utilized
so long as (i) the student's IEP team determines annually that
such   placement   continues   to   be   appropriate   to   meet   the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


student's needs and (ii) at least every 3 years following the
student's     residential      placement,      the     IEP   team        reviews
appropriate     placements      approved      by     the   State    Board     of
Education     pursuant    to    23     Ill.   Adm.    Code   401    or    other
applicable laws or rules to determine whether there are any
approved placements that can meet the student's needs, have
accepted the student, and have availability for placement of
the student.
    (h) The State Board of Education shall promulgate rules
and regulations for determining when placement in a private
special education facility is appropriate. Such rules and
regulations shall take into account the various types of
services    needed   by   a    child    and   the    availability    of     such
services to the particular child in the public school. In
developing these rules and regulations the State Board of
Education shall consult with the Advisory Council on Education
of Children with Disabilities and hold public hearings to
secure recommendations from parents, school personnel, and
others concerned about this matter.
    The State Board of Education shall also promulgate rules
and regulations for transportation to and from a residential
school. Transportation to and from home to a residential
school more than once each school term shall be subject to
prior approval by the State Superintendent in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the State Board.
    (i) A school district making tuition payments pursuant to
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


this Section is eligible for reimbursement from the State for
the amount of such payments actually made in excess of the
district per capita tuition charge for students not receiving
special     education        services.      Such    reimbursement       shall    be
approved in accordance with Section 14-12.01 and each district
shall file its claims, computed in accordance with rules
prescribed      by     the    State    Board       of     Education,    on    forms
prescribed by the State Superintendent of Education. Data used
as a basis of reimbursement claims shall be for the preceding
regular     school     term    and    summer   school       term.     Each    school
district shall transmit its claims to the State Board of
Education on or before August 15. However, for claims payable
in Fiscal Year 2026, each school district shall transmit its
claims to the State Board of Education on or before September
15. The State Board of Education, before approving any such
claims, shall determine their accuracy and whether they are
based upon services and facilities provided under approved
programs. Upon approval the State Board shall cause vouchers
to     be   prepared    showing       the    amount       due   for    payment   of
reimbursement claims to school districts, for transmittal to
the State Comptroller on the 30th day of September, December,
and March, respectively, and the final voucher, no later than
June 20. However, for vouchers payable in Fiscal Year 2026,
upon    approval     the      State   Board    of       Education     shall   cause
vouchers to be prepared showing the amount due for payment of
reimbursement claims to school districts, for transmittal to
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the State Comptroller on the 30th day of November, December,
and March, respectively, and the final voucher, no later than
June 20. If the money appropriated by the General Assembly for
such    purpose    for    any      year   is   insufficient,          it   shall      be
apportioned on the basis of the claims approved.
    (j)    No    child    shall     be    placed   in    a    special      education
program pursuant to this Section if the tuition cost for
special education and related services increases more than 10
percent over the tuition cost for the previous school year or
exceeds $4,500 per year unless such costs have been approved
by the Illinois Purchased Care Review Board. The Illinois
Purchased Care Review Board shall consist of the following
persons, or their designees: the Directors of Children and
Family Services, Public Health, Public Aid, and the Governor's
Office    of    Management      and      Budget;   the    Secretary        of    Human
Services; the State Superintendent of Education; and such
other persons as the Governor may designate. The Review Board
shall    also     consist     of    one    non-voting        member    who      is    an
administrator       of    a   private,      nonpublic,       special       education
school, one non-voting member who is an administrator of a
separate       public    special      education     day       school,      and       one
non-voting member from a State agency that administers and
provides    early       childhood     education     and      care     programs       and
services to children and families. Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, a provider operating a separate public
special education day school may charge a fee for tuition or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


services at a program for students placed under this Section
that is in addition to or separate from the rate calculated by
the Board during the 2026-2027 school year. The Review Board
shall establish rules and regulations for its determination of
allowable costs and payments made by local school districts
for special education, room and board, and other related
services    provided      by     non-public   schools,      separate      public
special education day schools, or special education facilities
and shall establish uniform standards and criteria which it
shall follow. The Review Board shall approve the usual and
customary rate or rates of a special education program that
(i) is offered by an out-of-state, non-public provider of
integrated autism specific educational and autism specific
residential      services,       (ii)   offers    2   or    more   levels    of
residential care, including at least one locked facility, and
(iii) serves 12 or fewer Illinois students.
     (k) In determining rates based on allowable costs, the
Review Board shall consider any wage increases awarded by the
General Assembly to front line personnel defined as direct
support    persons,      aides,    front-line     supervisors,      qualified
intellectual       disabilities          professionals,         nurses,     and
non-administrative support staff working in service settings
in   community-based       settings      within   the      State   and    adjust
customary rates or rates of a special education program to be
equitable   to     the    wage    increase    awarded      to   similar   staff
positions     in   a     community      residential     setting.    Any     wage
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


increase   awarded     by    the   General      Assembly    to     front    line
personnel defined as direct support persons, aides, front-line
supervisors,         qualified            intellectual           disabilities
professionals, nurses, and non-administrative support staff
working    in    community-based      settings          within    the    State,
including the $0.75 per hour increase contained in Public Act
100-23 and the $0.50 per hour increase included in Public Act
100-23, shall also be a basis for any facility covered by this
Section to appeal its rate before the Review Board under the
process defined in Title 89, Part 900, Section 340 of the
Illinois Administrative Code. Illinois Administrative Code
Title 89, Part 900, Section 342 shall be updated to recognize
wage increases awarded to community-based settings to be a
basis for appeal. However, any wage increase that is captured
upon appeal from a previous year shall not be counted by the
Review Board as revenue for the purpose of calculating a
facility's future rate.
    (l)    Any    definition       used    by    the     Review     Board    in
administrative       rule     or     policy        to     define        "related
organizations" shall include any and all exceptions contained
in federal law or regulation as it pertains to the federal
definition of "related organizations".
    (m) The Review Board shall establish uniform definitions
and criteria for accounting separately by special education,
room and board and other related services costs. The Board
shall   also     establish   guidelines      for    the    coordination      of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


services   and    financial     assistance      provided    by      all   State
agencies to assure that no otherwise qualified child with a
disability   receiving     services      under    Article      14    shall   be
excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of or
be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity
provided by any State agency.
    (n) The Review Board shall review the costs for special
education and related services provided by non-public schools,
separate public special education day schools, or special
education facilities and shall approve or disapprove such
facilities   in    accordance    with     the    rules   and     regulations
established by it with respect to allowable costs.
    (o)    The    State    Board    of     Education        shall     provide
administrative and staff support for the Review Board as
deemed reasonable by the State Superintendent of Education.
This   support    shall   not   include    travel    expenses        or   other
compensation for any Review Board member other than the State
Superintendent of Education.
    (p) The Review Board shall seek the advice of the Advisory
Council on Education of Children with Disabilities on the
rules and regulations to be promulgated by it relative to
providing special education services.
    (q) If a child has been placed in a program in which the
actual per pupil costs of tuition for special education and
related services based on program enrollment, excluding room,
board and transportation costs, exceed $4,500 and such costs
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


have been approved by the Review Board, the district shall pay
such total costs which exceed $4,500. A district making such
tuition payments in excess of $4,500 pursuant to this Section
shall be responsible for an amount in excess of $4,500 equal to
the district per capita tuition charge and shall be eligible
for   reimbursement    from   the   State    for   the   amount   of   such
payments actually made in excess of the district's per capita
tuition charge for students not receiving special education
services. If a child has been placed in a private special
education    school,   separate     public    special     education    day
school, or private special education facility, a district
making tuition payments in excess of $4,500 pursuant to this
Section shall be responsible for an amount in excess of $4,500
equal to 2 times the district's per capita tuition charge and
shall be eligible for reimbursement from the State for the
amount of such payments actually made in excess of 2 times the
district's    per   capita    tuition   charge      for    students    not
receiving special education services.
      (r) If a child has been placed in an approved individual
program and the tuition costs including room and board costs
have been approved by the Review Board, then such room and
board costs shall be paid by the appropriate State agency
subject to the provisions of Section 14-8.01 of this Act. Room
and board costs not provided by a State agency other than the
State Board of Education shall be provided by the State Board
of Education on a current basis. In no event, however, shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the State's liability for funding of these tuition costs begin
until after the legal obligations of third party payors have
been subtracted from such costs. If the money appropriated by
the    General     Assembly      for      such   purpose    for     any   year    is
insufficient, it shall be apportioned on the basis of the
claims approved. Each district shall submit estimated claims
to the State Superintendent of Education. Upon approval of
such   claims,      the     State     Superintendent       of    Education   shall
direct the State Comptroller to make payments on a monthly
basis. The frequency for submitting estimated claims and the
method of determining payment shall be prescribed in rules and
regulations adopted by the State Board of Education. Such
current state reimbursement shall be reduced by an amount
equal to the proceeds which the child or child's parents are
eligible to receive under any public or private insurance or
assistance program. Nothing in this Section shall be construed
as    relieving        an   insurer    or    similar     third    party    from   an
otherwise valid obligation to provide or to pay for services
provided to a child with a disability.
      (s)   If    it    otherwise      qualifies,      a   school    district     is
eligible for the transportation reimbursement under Section
14-13.01 and for the reimbursement of tuition payments under
this    Section        whether      the     non-public     school    or    special
education        facility,     public       out-of-state    school    or     county
special education facility, attended by a child who resides in
that district and requires special educational services, is
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


within   or   outside   of   the    State     of       Illinois.    However,   a
district is not eligible to claim transportation reimbursement
under this Section unless the district certifies to the State
Superintendent of Education that the district is unable to
provide special educational services required by the child for
the current school year.
     (t) Nothing in this Section authorizes the reimbursement
of a school district for the amount paid for tuition of a child
attending a non-public school or special education facility, a
public   special     education     facility,       a    public     out-of-state
school, or a county special education facility unless the
school   district    certifies     to   the    State      Superintendent       of
Education that the special education program of that district
is unable to meet the needs of that child because of the
child's disability and the State Superintendent of Education
finds that the school district is in substantial compliance
with Section 14-4.01. However, if a child is unilaterally
placed by a State agency or any court in a non-public school or
special education facility, public out-of-state school, or
county special education facility, a school district shall not
be   required   to    certify    to     the   State       Superintendent       of
Education, for the purpose of tuition reimbursement, that the
special education program of that district is unable to meet
the needs of a child because of his or her disability.
     (u) Any educational or related services provided, pursuant
to this Section in a non-public school or special education
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                             LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


facility or a special education facility owned and operated by
a county government unit shall be at no cost to the parent or
guardian of the child. However, current law and practices
relative to contributions by parents or guardians for costs
other than educational or related services are not affected by
this amendatory Act of 1978.
    (v) Reimbursement for children attending public school
residential facilities shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.
    (w) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any school
district receiving a payment under this Section or under
Section 14-7.02b, 14-13.01, or 29-5 of this Code may classify
all or a portion of the funds that it receives in a particular
fiscal year or from general State aid pursuant to Section
18-8.05 of this Code as funds received in connection with any
funding program for which it is entitled to receive funds from
the State in that fiscal year (including, without limitation,
any funding program referenced in this Section), regardless of
the source or timing of the receipt. The district may not
classify more funds as funds received in connection with the
funding program than the district is entitled to receive in
that fiscal year for that program. Any classification by a
district   must   be   made   by   a   resolution   of   its   board   of
education. The resolution must identify the amount of any
payments or general State aid to be classified under this
paragraph and must specify the funding program to which the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


funds are to be treated as received in connection therewith.
This resolution is controlling as to the classification of
funds referenced therein. A certified copy of the resolution
must be sent to the State Superintendent of Education. The
resolution shall still take effect even though a copy of the
resolution has not been sent to the State Superintendent of
Education in a timely manner. No classification under this
paragraph by a district shall affect the total amount or
timing of money the district is entitled to receive under this
Code. No classification under this paragraph by a district
shall in any way relieve the district from or affect any
requirements that otherwise would apply with respect to that
funding program, including any accounting of funds by source,
reporting    expenditures    by   original     source    and   purpose,
reporting requirements, or requirements of providing services.
    (x) The State Board of Education may adopt such rules as
may be necessary to implement this Section.
(Source: P.A. 103-175, eff. 6-30-23; 103-546, eff. 8-11-23;
103-605,    eff.   7-1-24;   103-644,   eff.   7-1-24;    104-2,   eff.
6-16-25.)


    (105 ILCS 5/14-7.03) (from Ch. 122, par. 14-7.03)
    Sec. 14-7.03. Special education classes for children from
orphanages, foster family homes, children's homes, or State
residential units. If a school district maintains special
education classes on the site of orphanages and children's
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


homes, or if children from the orphanages, children's homes,
foster     family    homes,     other     State       agencies,     or    State
residential units for children attend classes for children
with     disabilities     in   which     the     school     district      is   a
participating member of a joint agreement, or if the children
from the orphanages, children's homes, foster family homes,
other    State   agencies,     or     State    residential    units       attend
classes for the children with disabilities maintained by the
school district, then reimbursement shall be paid to eligible
districts in accordance with the provisions of this Section by
the Comptroller as directed by the State Superintendent of
Education.
    The    amount    of   tuition       for    such     children    shall      be
determined by the actual cost of maintaining such classes,
using    the   per   capita    cost    formula    set     forth    in    Section
14-7.01, such program and cost to be pre-approved by the State
Superintendent of Education.
    If a school district makes a claim for reimbursement under
Section 18-3 of this Code it shall not include in any claim
filed under this Section a claim for such children. Payments
authorized by law, including State or federal grants for
education of children included in this Section, shall be
deducted in determining the tuition amount.
    Nothing in this Code shall be construed so as to prohibit
reimbursement for the tuition of children placed in for profit
facilities. Private facilities shall provide adequate space at
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the facility for special education classes provided by a
school    district        or    joint      agreement     for   children       with
disabilities who are residents of the facility at no cost to
the school district or joint agreement upon request of the
school district or joint agreement. If such a private facility
provides space at no cost to the district or joint agreement
for   special   education         classes     provided    to   children       with
disabilities who are residents of the facility, the district
or joint agreement shall not include any costs for the use of
those facilities in its claim for reimbursement.
      Reimbursement       for    tuition      may   include    the     cost    of
providing summer school programs for children with severe and
profound disabilities served under this Section. Claims for
that reimbursement shall be filed by November 1 and shall be
paid on or before December 15 from appropriations made for the
purposes of this Section.
      The State Board of Education shall establish such rules
and    regulations    as        may   be    necessary     to   implement      the
provisions of this Section.
      Claims filed on behalf of programs operated under this
Section   housed     in    an    orphanage,     children's     home,    private
facility, State residential unit, district or joint agreement
site, jail, detention center, or county-owned shelter care
facility shall be on an individual student basis only for
eligible students with disabilities. These claims shall be in
accordance with applicable rules.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Each      district     claiming     reimbursement            for   individual
students shall have the eligibility of those students verified
by the State Board of Education. On September 30, December 31,
and March 31, the State Board of Education shall voucher
payments for individual students based upon an estimated cost
calculated from the prior year's claim. Final claims for
individual     students     for   the   regular      school       term       must   be
received at the State Board of Education by June 15. Claims for
individual     students     received     after      June    15    shall       not   be
honored. Claims received by June 15 may be amended until
August   1.    Final     claims   for   individual         students      shall      be
vouchered by August 31. However, notwithstanding any other
provisions     of   this    Section     or   this    Code,       if    the    amount
appropriated for any fiscal year is less than the amount
required for purposes of this Section, the amount required to
eliminate any insufficient reimbursement for each district
claim under this Section shall be reimbursed on August 31 of
the next fiscal year. Payments required to eliminate any
insufficiency for prior fiscal year claims shall be made
before any claims are paid for the current fiscal year.
    Regional superintendents may operate special education
classes for children from orphanages, foster family homes,
children's homes, or State residential units located within
the educational services region upon consent of the school
board otherwise so obligated. In electing to assume the powers
and duties of a school district in providing and maintaining
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


such a special education program, the regional superintendent
may enter into joint agreements with other districts and may
contract with public or private schools or the orphanage,
foster family home, children's home, or State residential unit
for provision of the special education program. The regional
superintendent       exercising      the     powers    granted   under     this
Section shall be reimbursed for the actual cost of providing
such programs by the resident district as defined in Section
14-1.11a.
     Any child who is not a resident of Illinois who is placed
in   a   child    welfare   institution,       private    facility,      foster
family home, State operated program, orphanage, or children's
home shall have the payment for his educational tuition and
any related services assured by the placing agent.
     For each student with a disability who is placed in a
residential facility by an Illinois public agency or by any
court in this State, the costs for educating the student are
eligible for reimbursement under this Section.
     The district of residence of the student with a disability
as defined in Section 14-1.11a is responsible for the actual
costs    of   the   student's     special     education     program   and    is
eligible for reimbursement under this Section when placement
is made by a State agency or the courts.
     When     a   dispute   arises    over    the     determination   of    the
district of residence under this Section, the district or
districts may appeal the decision in writing to the State
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


Superintendent of Education, who, upon review of materials
submitted and any other items or information he or she may
request for submission, shall issue a written decision on the
matter. The decision of the State Superintendent of Education
shall be final.
    In the event a district does not make a tuition payment to
another    district    that    is   providing     the   special    education
program and services, the State Board of Education shall
immediately withhold 125% of the then remaining annual tuition
cost from the State aid or categorical aid payment due to the
school district that is determined to be the resident school
district. All funds withheld by the State Board of Education
shall immediately be forwarded to the school district where
the student is being served.
    When a child eligible for services under this Section is
placed in a nonpublic facility, that facility shall meet the
programmatic    requirements         of    Section      14-7.02    and    its
regulations, and the educational services shall be funded only
in accordance with this Section.
    Beginning with the 2027-2028 2026-2027 school year, when a
child eligible for services under this Section is placed in a
separate    public    day     school,     that   school    shall   meet   the
definition     of     Section       14-1.08a     and      the   programmatic
requirements and rules for separate public day schools, and
the educational services shall be funded only in accordance
with this Section.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


(Source: P.A. 101-17, eff. 6-14-19; 10400HB5551enr.)


                              Article 55.


    Section 55-5. The Grant Accountability and Transparency
Act is amended by changing Sections 5, 15, 20, 45, and 75 as
follows:


    (30 ILCS 708/5)
    Sec. 5. Legislative intent.
    (a) This Act, which is the product of the work of the
Illinois Single Audit Commission, created by Public Act 98-47,
is intended to comply with the General Assembly's directives
to (1) develop a coordinated, non-redundant process for the
provision    of   effective    and   efficient     oversight   of   the
selection and monitoring of grant recipients, thereby ensuring
quality programs and limiting fraud, waste, and abuse, and (2)
define the purpose, scope, applicability, and responsibilities
in the life cycle of a grant.
    (b) This Act is intended to increase the accountability
and transparency in the use of grant funds from whatever
source and to reduce administrative burdens on both State
agencies    and   grantees    by   adopting    federal   guidance   and
regulations applicable to such grant funds; specifically, the
Uniform    Administrative     Requirements,    Cost   Principles,   and
Audit Requirements for Federal Awards ("Uniform Guidance"),
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


codified     at    2    CFR     200.   Starting    in    Fiscal    Year   2027,
expenditures for both existing and newly awarded grants funded
from   State      moneys      shall    comply     with   only     those   rules
applicable to grants contained in 2 CFR Part 200 in effect as
of the effective date of the changes to this Section by this
amendatory Act of the 104th General Assembly and rules adopted
pursuant this Act.
     (c) This Act is consistent with the State's focus on
improving performance and outcomes while ensuring transparency
and the financial integrity of taxpayer dollars through such
initiatives as the Management Improvement Initiative Committee
created by Section 1-37a of the Department of Human Services
Act, the State prioritized goals created under Section 50-25
of   the   State       Budget    Law   (also    known    as   "Budgeting   for
Results"), and the Grant Information Collection Act.
     (d) This Act is not intended to affect the provisions of
the Illinois State Auditing Act and does not address the
external audit function of the Auditor General.
(Source: P.A. 98-706, eff. 7-16-14.)


     (30 ILCS 708/15)
     Sec. 15. Definitions. As used in this Act:
     "Allowable cost" means a cost allowable to a project if:
           (1) the costs are reasonable and necessary for the
     performance of the award;
           (2) the costs are allocable to the specific project;
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        (3)    the   costs       are   treated    consistently    in     like
    circumstances         to   both    federally-financed     and       other
    activities of the non-federal entity;
        (4) the costs conform to any limitations of the cost
    principles or the sponsored agreement;
        (5) the costs are accorded consistent treatment; a
    cost may not be assigned to a State or federal award as a
    direct    cost   if    any   other   cost    incurred   for   the    same
    purpose in like circumstances has been allocated to the
    award as an indirect cost;
        (6) the costs are determined to be in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles;
        (7) the costs are not included as a cost or used to
    meet federal cost-sharing or matching requirements of any
    other program in either the current or prior period;
        (8) the costs of one State or federal grant are not
    used to meet the match requirements of another State or
    federal grant; and
        (9) the costs are adequately documented.
    "Assistance listings" means the publicly available listing
of federal assistance programs managed and administered by the
General Services Administration, formerly known as the Catalog
of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA).
    "Assistance listing number" or "ALN" means a unique number
assigned to identify a federal assistance listing, formerly
known as the CFDA Number.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


     "Auditee" means any non-federal entity that expends State
or federal awards that must be audited.
     "Auditor" means an auditor who is a public accountant or a
federal, State, or local government audit organization that
meets the general standards specified in generally-accepted
government    auditing       standards.       "Auditor"           does   not    include
internal auditors of nonprofit organizations.
     "Auditor General" means the Auditor General of the State
of Illinois.
     "Award" means financial assistance that provides support
or   stimulation       to   accomplish        a    public         purpose.     "Awards"
include grants and other agreements in the form of money, or
property in lieu of money, by the State or federal government
to an eligible recipient. "Award" does not include: technical
assistance that provides services instead of money; other
assistance in the form of loans, loan guarantees, interest
subsidies,    or    insurance;      direct         payments        of    any   kind    to
individuals;      or    contracts      that       must       be   entered      into   and
administered      under     State   or    federal            procurement       laws   and
regulations.
     "Budget" means the financial plan for the project or
program    that     the     awarding     agency         or    pass-through       entity
approves during the award process or in subsequent amendments
to   the   award.      It   may   include         the    State      or   federal      and
non-federal share or only the State or federal share, as
determined by the awarding agency or pass-through entity.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    "Catalog of State Financial Assistance" means the single,
authoritative, statewide, comprehensive source document of
State financial assistance program information maintained by
the Governor's Office of Management and Budget.
    "Catalog of State Financial Assistance Number" means the
number assigned to a State program in the Catalog of State
Financial Assistance. The first 3 digits represent the State
agency number and the last 4 digits represent the program.
    "Cluster of programs" means a grouping of closely related
programs that share common compliance requirements. The types
of clusters of programs are research and development, student
financial aid, and other clusters. A "cluster of programs"
shall be considered as one program for determining major
programs and, with the exception of research and development,
whether a program-specific audit may be elected.
    "Cognizant agency for audit" means the federal agency
designated to carry out the responsibilities described in 2
CFR Part 200, Subpart F - Audit Requirements.
    "Contract" means a legal instrument by which a non-federal
entity purchases property or services needed to carry out the
project or program under an award. "Contract" does not include
a legal instrument, even if the non-federal entity considers
it a contract, when the substance of the transaction meets the
definition of an award or subaward.
    "Contractor" means an entity that receives a contract.
    "Cooperative   agreement"   means   a   legal   instrument   of
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


financial       assistance         between         an     awarding         agency      or
pass-through entity and a non-federal entity that:
            (1) is used to enter into a relationship with the
      principal purpose of transferring anything of value from
      the     awarding     agency        or     pass-through       entity      to    the
      non-federal        entity       to      carry     out    a   public      purpose
      authorized by law, but is not used to acquire property or
      services     for     the     awarding        agency's        or    pass-through
      entity's direct benefit or use; and
            (2) is distinguished from a grant in that it provides
      for substantial involvement between the awarding agency or
      pass-through entity and the non-federal entity in carrying
      out the activity contemplated by the award.
      "Cooperative agreement" does not include a cooperative
research and development agreement, nor an agreement that
provides only direct cash assistance to an individual, a
subsidy, a loan, a loan guarantee, or insurance.
      "Corrective action" means action taken by the auditee that
(i)     corrects     identified                deficiencies,        (ii)       produces
recommended improvements, or (iii) demonstrates that audit
findings are either invalid or do not warrant auditee action.
      "Cost    objective"        means     a    program,      function,       activity,
award, organizational subdivision, contract, or work unit for
which cost data is desired and for which provision is made to
accumulate and measure the cost of processes, products, jobs,
and   capital     projects.       A    "cost      objective"       may   be    a    major
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


function of the non-federal entity, a particular service or
project, an award, or an indirect cost activity.
    "Cost sharing" means the portion of project costs not paid
by State or federal funds, unless otherwise authorized by
statute.
    "Development"     is   the    systematic    use   of    knowledge       and
understanding     gained   from     research    directed        toward      the
production of useful materials, devices, systems, or methods,
including design and development of prototypes and processes.
    "Direct costs" means:
        (1) costs that can be identified specifically with a
    particular    final    cost    objective,    such      as   a   State    or
    federal or federal pass-through award or a particular
    sponsored project, an instructional activity, or any other
    institutional activity, or that can be directly assigned
    to such activities relatively easily with a high degree of
    accuracy;
        (2) costs charged directly to a State or federal award
    that are for the compensation of employees who work on
    that award, their related fringe benefits, or the costs of
    materials and other items of expense incurred for the
    State or federal award;
        (3) costs that are directly related to a specific
    award but that would otherwise be treated as indirect
    costs;
        (4) salaries of administrative and clerical staff only
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    if all the following conditions are met:
                  (A) the individual's services are integral to a
          project or activity;
                  (B) the individual can be specifically identified
          with the project or activity;
                  (C)    the   costs   are   explicitly    included   in     the
          budget or have the prior written approval of the State
          awarding agency; and
                  (D) the costs are not also recovered as indirect
          costs.
    Costs incurred for the same purpose in like circumstances
must   be    treated       consistently      as   either   direct   costs     or
indirect costs.
    "Equipment" means tangible personal property (including
information technology systems) having a useful life of more
than one year and a per-unit acquisition cost that equals or
exceeds the lesser of the capitalization level established by
the non-federal entity for financial statement purposes, or
$5,000.
    "Executive branch" means that branch of State government
that is under the jurisdiction of the Governor.
    "Federal agency" has the meaning provided for "agency"
under 5 U.S.C. 551(1) together with the meaning provided for
"agency" by 5 U.S.C. 552(f).
    "Federal award" means:
            (1)    the     federal     financial      assistance      that    a
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


     non-federal         entity      receives      directly    from    a    federal
     awarding agency or indirectly from a pass-through entity;
            (2) the cost-reimbursement contract under the Federal
     Acquisition Regulations that a non-federal entity receives
     directly from a federal awarding agency or indirectly from
     a pass-through entity; or
            (3)    the       instrument     setting    forth    the    terms    and
     conditions when the instrument is the grant agreement,
     cooperative         agreement,        other   agreement    for    assistance
     covered       in    2    CFR   Part    200,   Subpart     A,   Acronyms    and
     Definitions, or the cost-reimbursement contract awarded
     under the Federal Acquisition Regulations.
     "Federal award" does not include other contracts that a
federal agency uses to buy goods or services from a contractor
or     a     contract        to     operate    federal    government          owned,
contractor-operated facilities.
     "Federal awarding agency" means the federal agency that
provides a federal award directly to a non-federal entity.
     "Federal interest" means, for purposes of 2 CFR 200,
Subpart D, Post Federal Award Requirements (Performance and
Financial Monitoring and Reporting) or when used in connection
with       the    acquisition        or    improvement    of    real       property,
equipment, or supplies under a federal award, the dollar
amount that is the product of the federal share of total
project costs and current fair market value of the property,
improvements, or both, to the extent the costs of acquiring or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                            LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


improving the property were included as project costs.
    "Federal program" means any of the following:
        (1) All federal awards which are assigned a single
    number in the assistance listings.
        (2) When no assistance listing number is assigned, all
    federal   awards   to    non-federal   entities   from   the   same
    agency made for the same purpose should be combined and
    considered one program.
        (3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) of this
    definition, a cluster of programs. The types of clusters
    of programs are:
              (A) research and development;
              (B) student financial aid; and
              (C)   "other    clusters",    as   described    in   the
        definition of "cluster of programs".
    "Federal share" means the portion of the total project
costs that are paid by federal funds.
    "Final cost objective" means a cost objective which has
allocated to it both direct and indirect costs and, in the
non-federal entity's accumulation system, is one of the final
accumulation points, such as a particular award, internal
project, or other direct activity of a non-federal entity.
    "Financial assistance" means the following:
        (1) For grants and cooperative agreements, "financial
    assistance" means assistance that non-federal entities
    receive or administer in the form of:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


                (A) grants;
                (B) cooperative agreements;
                (C)        non-cash     contributions      or     donations   of
          property, including donated surplus property;
                (D) direct appropriations;
                (E) food commodities; and
                (F) other financial assistance, except assistance
          listed in paragraph (2) of this definition.
          (2) "Financial assistance" includes assistance that
    non-federal entities receive or administer in the form of
    loans, loan guarantees, interest subsidies, and insurance.
          (3) "Financial assistance" does not include amounts
    received          as    reimbursement    for       services    rendered   to
    individuals.
    "Fixed amount awards" means a type of grant agreement
under    which       the     awarding    agency    or    pass-through      entity
provides a specific level of support without regard to actual
costs incurred under the award. "Fixed amount awards" reduce
some     of     the        administrative    burden      and      record-keeping
requirements for both the non-federal entity and awarding
agency    or     pass-through         entity.     Accountability      is   based
primarily on performance and results.
    "Foreign public entity" means:
          (1)    a     foreign    government      or    foreign    governmental
    entity;
          (2)    a     public     international        organization    that   is
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    entitled to enjoy privileges, exemptions, and immunities
    as an international organization under the International
    Organizations Immunities Act (22 U.S.C. 288-288f);
        (3)     an   entity   owned,    in   whole    or   in   part,   or
    controlled by a foreign government; or
        (4) any other entity consisting wholly or partially of
    one or more foreign governments or foreign governmental
    entities.
    "Foreign organization" means an entity that is:
        (1) a public or private organization located in a
    country other than the United States and its territories
    that are subject to the laws of the country in which it is
    located, irrespective of the citizenship of project staff
    or place of performance;
        (2) a private nongovernmental organization located in
    a country other than the United States that solicits and
    receives cash contributions from the general public;
        (3) a charitable organization located in a country
    other than the United States that is nonprofit and tax
    exempt under the laws of its country of domicile and
    operation, but is not a university, college, accredited
    degree-granting       institution        of   education,       private
    foundation, hospital, organization engaged exclusively in
    research    or   scientific   activities,        church,    synagogue,
    mosque, or other similar entity organized primarily for
    religious purposes; or
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


        (4) an organization located in a country other than
    the United States not recognized as                a Foreign Public
    Entity.
    "Fringe benefits" has the same meaning as provided in 2
CFR Part 200, Subpart E - Cost Principles.
    "Generally Accepted Accounting Principles" has the meaning
provided in accounting standards issued by the Government
Accounting      Standards     Board   and    the   Financial    Accounting
Standards Board.
    "Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards" means
generally accepted government auditing standards issued by the
Comptroller General of the United States that are applicable
to financial audits.
    "Grant agreement" means a legal instrument of financial
assistance between an awarding agency or pass-through entity
and a non-federal entity that:
        (1)     is   used     to   enter    into   a   relationship,   the
    principal purpose of which is to transfer anything of
    value from the awarding agency or pass-through entity to
    the non-federal entity to carry out a public purpose
    authorized by law and not to acquire property or services
    for the awarding agency or pass-through entity's direct
    benefit or use; and
        (2) is distinguished from a cooperative agreement in
    that   it    does   not   provide      for   substantial   involvement
    between the awarding agency or pass-through entity and the
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    non-federal     entity        in      carrying     out        the    activity
    contemplated by the award.
    "Grant    agreement"       does    not   include   an    agreement          that
provides only direct cash assistance to an individual, a
subsidy, a loan, a loan guarantee, or insurance.
    "Grant    application"        means      a   specified    form       that    is
completed by a non-federal entity in connection with a request
for a specific funding opportunity or a request for financial
support of a project or activity.
    "Hospital" means a facility licensed as a hospital under
the law of any state or a facility operated as a hospital by
the United States, a state, or a subdivision of a state.
    "Illinois Stop Payment List" or "Illinois Debarred and
Suspended List" means the list maintained by the Governor's
Office of Management and Budget that contains the names of
those individuals and entities that are ineligible, either
temporarily or permanently, from receiving an award of grant
funds from the State.
    "Indirect cost" means those costs incurred for a common or
joint purpose benefiting more than one cost objective and not
readily     assignable    to     the     cost    objectives        specifically
benefited    without     effort       disproportionate       to    the    results
achieved.
    "Inspector General" means the Office of the Executive
Inspector General for Executive branch agencies.
    "Loan" means a State or federal loan or loan guarantee
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


received or administered by a non-federal entity. "Loan" does
not include a "program income" as defined in 2 CFR 200, Subpart
A, Acronyms and Definitions.
    "Loan guarantee" means any State or federal government
guarantee, insurance, or other pledge with respect to the
payment of all or a part of the principal or interest on any
debt obligation of a non-federal borrower to a non-federal
lender,   but   does    not   include    the   insurance    of    deposits,
shares,   or    other      withdrawable        accounts     in    financial
institutions.
    "Local government" has the meaning provided for the term
"units of local government" under Section 1 of Article VII of
the Illinois Constitution and includes school districts.
    "Major program" means a federal program determined by the
auditor to be a major program in accordance with 2 CFR Part
200, Subpart F - Audit Requirements or a program identified as
a major program by a federal awarding agency or pass-through
entity in accordance with 2 CFR Part 200, Subpart F - Audit
Requirements.
    "Non-federal       entity"   means   a    state,    local    government,
Indian    tribe,       institution       of    higher     education,      or
organization, whether nonprofit or for-profit, that carries
out a State or federal award as a recipient or subrecipient.
    "Nonprofit organization" means any corporation, trust,
association, cooperative, or other organization, not including
institutions of higher education, that:
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


         (1) is operated primarily for scientific, educational,
    service, charitable, or similar purposes in the public
    interest;
         (2) is not organized primarily for profit; and
         (3) uses net proceeds to maintain, improve, or expand
    the operations of the organization.
    "Obligations", when used in connection with a non-federal
entity's utilization of funds under an award, means orders
placed for property and services, contracts and subawards
made, and similar transactions during a given period that
require payment by the non-federal entity during the same or a
future period.
    "Office of Management and Budget" means the Office of
Management        and    Budget     of    the   Executive      Office    of   the
President.
    "Other clusters" has the meaning provided by the federal
Office of Management and Budget in the compliance supplement
or has the meaning as it is designated by a state for federal
awards the state provides to its subrecipients that meet the
definition of a cluster of programs. When designating an
"other cluster", a state must identify the federal awards
included    in     the    cluster       and   advise    the   subrecipients    of
compliance requirements applicable to the cluster.
    "Oversight agency for audit" means the federal awarding
agency     that    provides       the     predominant      amount   of   funding
directly to a non-federal entity not assigned a cognizant
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


agency    for   audit.    When     there    is   no   direct     funding,      the
awarding agency that is the predominant source of pass-through
funding must assume the oversight responsibilities. The duties
of the oversight agency for audit and the process for any
reassignments are described in 2 CFR Part 200, Subpart F -
Audit Requirements.
    "Pass-through        entity"    means    a   non-federal      entity    that
provides a subaward to a subrecipient to carry out part of a
program.
    "Private award" means an award from a person or entity
other than a State or federal entity. Private awards are not
subject to the provisions of this Act.
    "Property" means real property or personal property.
    "Project cost" means total allowable costs incurred under
an award and all required cost sharing and voluntary committed
cost sharing, including third-party contributions.
    "Public institutions of higher education" has the meaning
provided in Section 1 of the Board of Higher Education Act.
    "Recipient" means a non-federal entity that receives an
award    directly   from    an     awarding      agency   to     carry   out    an
activity    under   a     program.    "Recipient"         does    not    include
subrecipients or individuals who are beneficiaries of the
award.
    "Research and Development" means all research activities,
both basic and applied, and all development activities that
are performed by non-federal entities.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    "Single Audit Act" means the federal Single Audit Act
Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507).
    "State   agency"   means   an    Executive   branch    agency.   For
purposes of this Act, "State agency" does not include public
institutions of higher education.
    "State   award"    means   the   financial   assistance    that   a
non-federal entity receives from the State and that is funded
with either State funds or federal funds; in the latter case,
the State is acting as a pass-through entity.
    "State awarding agency" means a State agency that provides
an award to a non-federal entity.
    "State grant-making agency" has the same meaning as "State
awarding agency".
    "State interest" means the acquisition or improvement of
real property, equipment, or supplies under a State award, the
dollar amount that is the product of the State share of the
total project costs and current fair market value of the
property, improvements, or both, to the extent the costs of
acquiring or improving the property were included as project
costs.
    "State program" means any of the following:
         (1) All    State awards which       are assigned a     single
    number in the Catalog of State Financial Assistance.
         (2) When no Catalog of State Financial Assistance
    number   is    assigned,   all   State   awards   to   non-federal
    entities from the same agency made for the same purpose
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    are considered one program.
          (3) A cluster of programs as defined in this Section.
    "State share" means the portion of the total project costs
that are paid by State funds.
    "Stop payment order" means a communication from a State
grant-making       agency    to   the    Office     of    the        Comptroller,
following procedures set out by the Office of the Comptroller,
causing     the    cessation      of    payments    to        a     recipient      or
subrecipient as a result of the recipient's or subrecipient's
failure to comply with one or more terms of the grant or
subaward.
    "Stop payment procedure" means the procedure created by
the Office of the Comptroller which effects a stop payment
order and the lifting of a stop payment order upon the request
of the State grant-making agency.
    "Student Financial Aid" means federal awards under those
programs    of     general    student     assistance,             such   as   those
authorized by Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as
amended (20 U.S.C. 1070-1099d), that are administered by the
United States Department of Education and similar programs
provided by other federal agencies. "Student Financial Aid"
does not include federal awards under programs that provide
fellowships       or   similar    federal   awards       to       students    on   a
competitive basis or for specified studies or research.
    "Subaward" means a State or federal award provided by a
pass-through entity to a subrecipient for the subrecipient to
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


carry out part of a federal award received by the pass-through
entity. "Subaward" does not include payments to a contractor
or payments to an individual that is a beneficiary of a federal
program. A "subaward" may be provided through any form of
legal agreement, including an agreement that the pass-through
entity considers a contract.
      "Subrecipient" means a non-federal entity that receives a
State or federal subaward from a pass-through entity to carry
out part of a State or federal program. "Subrecipient" does
not   include   an       individual    that    is    a   beneficiary       of    such
program. A "subrecipient" may also be a recipient of other
State or federal awards directly from a State or federal
awarding agency.
      "Suspension" means a post-award action by the State or
federal     agency       or    pass-through     entity      that     temporarily
withdraws    the     State      or   federal    agency's     or    pass-through
entity's    financial         assistance    sponsorship      under    an    award,
pending corrective action by the recipient or subrecipient or
pending a decision to terminate the award.
      "Uniform Administrative Requirements, Costs Principles,
and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards" means those rules
applicable to grants contained in 2 CFR Part 200. Beginning
July 1, 2026, for awards funded by State moneys, "Uniform
Administrative       Requirements,         Costs     Principles,     and        Audit
Requirements       for    Federal     Awards"       means   only   those        rules
applicable to grants contained in 2 CFR Part 200 in effect as
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


of the effective date of the changes to this Section by this
amendatory Act of the 104th General Assembly.
    "Unique   Entity     Identifier"    means     the   number     that   is
established and assigned by the federal government on the
System for Award Management website (SAM.gov) to uniquely
identify entities and, under federal law, is required for
nonfederal entities to apply for, receive, and report on a
federal award.
    "Voluntary      committed   cost   sharing"    means    cost   sharing
specifically pledged on a voluntary basis in the proposal's
budget or the award on the part of the non-federal entity and
that becomes a binding requirement of the award.
(Source: P.A. 103-616, eff. 7-1-24; 103-1068, eff. 3-21-25;
104-417, eff. 8-15-25.)


    (30 ILCS 708/20)
    Sec. 20. Adoption of federal rules applicable to grants.
    (a) On or before July 1, 2016, the Governor's Office of
Management    and    Budget,    with    the   advice       and   technical
assistance of the Illinois Single Audit Commission, shall
adopt rules which adopt the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR 200. The
rules, which shall apply to all State and federal pass-through
awards effective on and after July 1, 2016, shall include the
following:
        (1) Administrative requirements. In accordance with
    Subparts B through D of 2 CFR 200, the rules shall set
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    forth the uniform administrative requirements for grant
    and cooperative agreements, including the requirements for
    the management by State awarding agencies of federal grant
    programs before State and federal pass-through awards have
    been made and requirements that State awarding agencies
    may impose on non-federal entities in State and federal
    pass-through awards.
          (2) Cost principles. In accordance with Subpart E of 2
    CFR     200,   the   rules   shall    establish    principles    for
    determining the allowable costs incurred by non-federal
    entities under State and federal pass-through awards. The
    principles are intended for cost determination, but are
    not intended to identify the circumstances or dictate the
    extent of State or federal pass-through participation in
    financing a particular program or project. The principles
    shall provide that State and federal awards bear their
    fair share of cost recognized under these principles,
    except where restricted or prohibited by State or federal
    law.
          (3) Audit and single audit requirements and audit
    follow-up. In accordance with Subpart F of 2 CFR 200 and
    the federal Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996, the rules
    shall    set   forth   standards     to   obtain   consistency   and
    uniformity among State and federal pass-through awarding
    agencies for the audit of non-federal entities expending
    State and federal awards. These provisions shall also set
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    forth the policies and procedures for State and federal
    pass-through entities when using the results of these
    audits.
          The   provisions        of    this   item    (3)     do    not    apply    to
    for-profit subrecipients because for-profit subrecipients
    are not subject to the requirements of 2 CFR 200, Subpart
    F, Audits of States, Local and Non-Profit Organizations.
    Audits      of    for-profit        subrecipients        must    be     conducted
    pursuant to a Program Audit Guide issued by the Federal
    awarding         agency.     If    a    Program     Audit       Guide    is     not
    available,        the   State       awarding      agency    must       prepare   a
    Program Audit Guide in accordance with the 2 CFR 200,
    Subpart F – Audit Requirements - Compliance Supplement.
    For-profit        entities        are   subject    to    all    other    general
    administrative requirements and cost principles applicable
    to grants.
    (b) This Act addresses only State and federal pass-through
auditing functions and does not address the external audit
function of the Auditor General.
    (c)   For    public        institutions     of     higher       education,      the
provisions of this Section apply only to awards funded by
federal pass-through awards from a State agency to public
institutions of higher education. Federal pass-through awards
from a State agency to public institutions of higher education
are governed by and must comply with federal guidelines under
2 CFR 200.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                     LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (d)    The    State     grant-making      agency      is   responsible      for
establishing requirements, as necessary, to ensure compliance
by for-profit subrecipients. The agreement with the for-profit
subrecipient        shall       describe     the     applicable        compliance
requirements      and     the    for-profit    subrecipient's          compliance
responsibility. Methods to ensure compliance for State and
federal pass-through awards made to for-profit subrecipients
shall     include      pre-award     audits,        monitoring     during       the
agreement, and post-award audits. The Governor's Office of
Management and Budget shall provide such advice and technical
assistance to the State grant-making agency as is necessary or
indicated.
    (e) On and after the effective date of the changes to this
Section by this amendatory Act of the 104th General Assembly,
the Governor's Office of Management and Budget may adopt
additional rules applicable only to awards funded by State
moneys     as    otherwise       necessary    and        appropriate.        Federal
pass-through      awards     administered      by    a    State   agency      shall
continue    to    be    governed     by    rules     applicable        to    federal
pass-through awards.
(Source: P.A. 102-626, eff. 8-27-21; 102-813, eff. 5-13-22.)


    (30 ILCS 708/45)
    Sec. 45. Applicability.
    (a) Except as otherwise provided in this Section, the
requirements      established       under     this       Act   apply    to    State
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


grant-making agencies that make State and federal pass-through
awards to non-federal entities. These requirements apply to
all costs related to State and federal pass-through awards.
Beginning July 1, 2026, expenditures for both existing and
newly awarded grants funded from State moneys shall comply
with only those rules applicable to grants contained in 2 CFR
Part 200 in effect as of the effective date of the changes to
this Section by this amendatory Act of the 104th General
Assembly and additional rules adopted pursuant this Act. The
requirements    established      under    this    Act     do    not    apply    to
private awards, to allocations of State revenues paid over by
the Comptroller to units of local government and other taxing
districts pursuant to the State Revenue Sharing Act from the
Local Government Distributive Fund or the Personal Property
Tax Replacement Fund, to allotments of State motor fuel tax
revenues distributed by the Department of Transportation to
units of local government pursuant to the Motor Fuel Tax Law
from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund or the Transportation Renewal
Fund, or to awards, including capital appropriated funds, made
by   the    Department     of   Transportation      to     units      of   local
government     for   the    purposes      of   transportation          projects
utilizing    State   funds,     federal    funds,    or    both       State    and
federal funds. This Act shall recognize that federal and
federal     pass-through        awards    from      the        Department       of
Transportation to units of local government are governed by
and must comply with federal guidelines under 2 CFR Part 200.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                   LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    The changes made by this amendatory Act of the 102nd
General Assembly apply to pending actions as well as actions
commenced on or after the effective date of this amendatory
Act of the 102nd General Assembly.
    (a-5) Nothing in this Act shall prohibit the use of State
funds for purposes of federal match or maintenance of effort.
    (b)   The   terms    and    conditions      of     State,    federal,   and
pass-through    awards    apply       to   subawards     and     subrecipients
unless a particular Section of this Act or the terms and
conditions of the State or federal award specifically indicate
otherwise. Non-federal entities shall comply with requirements
of this Act regardless of whether the non-federal entity is a
recipient or subrecipient of a State or federal pass-through
award.    Pass-through         entities      shall      comply      with    the
requirements    set     forth     under     the      rules      adopted    under
subsection (a) of Section 20 of this Act, but not to any
requirements in this Act directed towards State or federal
awarding agencies, unless the requirements of the State or
federal awards indicate otherwise.
    When a non-federal entity is awarded a cost-reimbursement
contract,   only   2    CFR    200,   Subpart     D,    Post    Federal    Award
Requirements    (Subrecipient         Monitoring       and   Management)    are
incorporated by reference into the contract. However, when the
Cost Accounting Standards are applicable to the contract, they
take precedence over the requirements of this Act unless they
are in conflict with Subpart F of 2 CFR 200. In addition, costs
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                       LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


that are made unallowable under 10 U.S.C. 2324(e) and 41
U.S.C.      4304(a),      as    described     in     the   Federal    Acquisition
Regulations,         subpart     31.2   and   subpart      31.603,    are   always
unallowable. For requirements other than those covered in
Subpart     D   of    2   CFR    200,   Subpart       D,   Post   Federal   Award
Requirements (Subrecipient Monitoring and Management), the
terms of the contract and the Federal Acquisition Regulations
apply.
      With the exception of Subpart F of 2 CFR 200, which is
required by the Single Audit Act, for awards funded in whole or
in part from federal moneys, in any circumstances where the
provisions of federal statutes or regulations differ from the
provisions of this Act, the provision of the federal statutes
or regulations govern. This includes, for agreements with
Indian tribes, the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination
and   Education       and      Assistance     Act,    as   amended,    25   U.S.C.
450-458ddd-2.
      (c)   State     grant-making      agencies       may   apply    subparts   A
through E of 2 CFR 200 to for-profit entities, foreign public
entities, or foreign organizations, except where the awarding
agency determines that the application of these subparts would
be inconsistent with the international obligations of the
United States or the statute or regulations of a foreign
government.
      (d) 2 CFR 200.101 specifies how 2 CFR 200 is applicable to
different types of awards. The same applicability applies to
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                 LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


this Act.
      (e) (Blank).
      (f)   For   public    institutions   of    higher   education,    the
provisions of this Act apply only to awards funded by federal
pass-through awards from a State agency to public institutions
of higher education. This Act shall recognize provisions in 2
CFR   200    as   applicable    to   public     institutions     of   higher
education, including Appendix III of Part 200 and the cost
principles under Subpart E.
      (g) Each grant-making agency shall enhance its processes
to    monitor     and      address   noncompliance        with   reporting
requirements and with program performance standards. Where
applicable, the process may include a corrective action plan.
The monitoring process shall include a plan for tracking and
documenting performance-based contracting decisions.
      (h) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
grants awarded from federal funds received from the federal
Coronavirus State Fiscal Recovery Fund in accordance with
Section 9901 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 are
subject to the provisions of this Act, but only to the extent
required by Section 9901 of the American Rescue Plan Act of
2021 and other applicable federal law or regulation.
(Source: P.A. 102-16, eff. 6-17-21; 102-626, eff. 8-27-21;
102-813, eff. 5-13-22; 102-1092, eff. 6-10-22; 103-616, eff.
7-1-24.)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                               LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    (30 ILCS 708/75)
    Sec. 75. State program exceptions.
    (a) With the exception of the audit requirements set forth
in 2 CFR 200.102, exceptions may be allowed for classes of
State or federal pass-through awards or non-federal entities
subject to the requirements of this Act when such exceptions
are not prohibited by State or federal law. However, in the
interest    of    maximum     uniformity,     exceptions      from    the
requirements of this Act shall be permitted only in unusual or
exceptional circumstances. Beginning July 1, 2026, exceptions
from the requirements of this Act shall be permitted where
necessary to ensure that only the rules applicable to grants
contained in 2 CFR Part 200 in effect as of the effective date
of the changes to this Section by this amendatory Act of the
104th General Assembly and additional rules adopted pursuant
this Act are applied to grants funded from State moneys.
    (b) The Governor's Office of Management and Budget, with
the advice and technical assistance of the Illinois Single
Audit Commission, shall adopt rules governing the criteria
that shall be used to determine when an exception may be
issued. The Governor's Office of Management and Budget shall
publish    any   allowed    exceptions   in   the   Catalog   of     State
Financial Assistance within 30 days of the exception being
allowed.
(Source: P.A. 100-201, eff. 8-18-17.)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                  LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


                              Article 60.


      Section 60-5. The State Finance Act is amended by changing
Section 6z-129 as follows:


      (30 ILCS 105/6z-129)
      Sec. 6z-129. Horse Racing Purse Equity Fund. The Horse
Racing Purse Equity Fund is a nonappropriated trust fund held
outside of the State treasury. Within 30 calendar days after
funds are deposited in the Horse Racing Purse Equity Fund and
the   applicable   grant   agreement      is     executed,   whichever    is
later, the Department of Agriculture shall transfer the entire
balance in the Fund to the organization licensees that hold
purse moneys that support each of the legally recognized
horsemen's     associations    that       have     contracted    with     an
organization    licensee     over   the     immediately      preceding    3
calendar years under subsection (d) of Section 29 of the
Illinois Horse Racing Act of 1975. The 2024, and 2025, and 2026
division of such fund balance among the qualifying purse
accounts   shall   be   pursuant    to   the     2021   agreement   of   the
involved horsemen associations with 45% being allocated to the
thoroughbred purse account at a racetrack located in Stickney
Township in Cook County, 30% being allocated to the harness
purse account at a racetrack located in Stickney Township in
Cook County, and 25% being allocated to the thoroughbred purse
account at a racetrack located in Madison County. Transfers
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


may be made to an organization licensee that has one or more
executed    grant     agreements      while      the     other     organization
licensee    awaits     finalization        and   execution       of     its      grant
agreement    or    agreements.      All    funds    transferred            to    purse
accounts    pursuant    to   this    Section     shall     be     for      the    sole
purpose of augmenting future purses during State fiscal years
2025, and 2026, and 2027. For purposes of this Section, a
legally    recognized    horsemen         association     is     that      horsemen
association       representing      the    largest       number       of    owners,
trainers, jockeys or Standardbred drivers who race horses at
an   Illinois      organization      licensee      and     that       enter       into
agreements with Illinois organization licenses to govern the
racing meet and that also provide required consents pursuant
to the Illinois Horse Racing Act of 1975.
(Source: P.A. 103-8, eff. 7-1-23; 103-588, eff. 7-1-24; 104-2,
eff. 6-16-25.)


     Section 60-10. The Illinois Horse Racing Act of 1975 is
amended by changing Section 28.1 as follows:


     (230 ILCS 5/28.1)
     Sec. 28.1. Payments.
     (a) Beginning on January 1, 2000, moneys collected by the
Board pursuant to Section 26 or Section 27 of this Act shall be
deposited into the Horse Racing Fund, which is hereby created
as a special fund in the State Treasury.
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                              LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


     (b) Appropriations, as approved by the General Assembly,
may be made from the Horse Racing Fund to the Board to pay the
salaries of the Board members, secretary, stewards, directors
of   mutuels,    veterinarians,       representatives,    accountants,
clerks, stenographers, inspectors, and other employees of the
Board,   and    all   expenses   of    the   Board   incident   to   the
administration of this Act, including, but not limited to, all
expenses and salaries incident to the taking of saliva and
urine samples in accordance with the rules and regulations of
the Board.
     (c) (Blank).
     (d) Beginning January 1, 2000, payments to all programs in
existence on June 25, 1999 (the effective date of Public Act
91-040) this amendatory Act of 1999 that are identified in
Sections 26(c), 26(f), 26(h)(11)(C), and 28, subsections (a),
(b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) of Section 30, and
subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) of
Section 31 shall be made from the General Revenue Fund at the
funding levels determined by amounts paid under this Act in
calendar year 1998. Beginning on August 6, 2004 (the effective
date of Public Act 93-869) this amendatory Act of the 93rd
General Assembly, payments to the Peoria Park District shall
be made from the General Revenue Fund at the funding level
determined by amounts paid to that park district for museum
purposes under this Act in calendar year 1994.
     If an inter-track wagering location licensee's facility
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                      LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


changes its location, then the payments associated with that
facility under this subsection (d) for museum purposes shall
be paid to the park district in the area where the facility
relocates, and the payments shall be used for museum purposes.
If the facility does not relocate to a park district, then the
payments    shall     be    paid     to    the    taxing     district    that    is
responsible for park or museum expenditures.
    (e) Beginning July 1, 2006, the payment authorized under
subsection      (d)   to   museums        and    aquariums    located    in    park
districts of over 500,000 population shall be paid to museums,
aquariums, and zoos in amounts determined by Museums in the
Park, an association of museums, aquariums, and zoos located
on Chicago Park District property.
    (f)    Beginning       July    1,     2007,   the   Children's      Discovery
Museum in Normal, Illinois shall receive payments from the
General Revenue Fund at the funding level determined by the
amounts paid to the Miller Park Zoo in Bloomington, Illinois
under this Section in calendar year 2006.
    (g)    On    July      3,     2024,    the     Comptroller    shall       order
transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer $3,200,000 from
the Horse Racing Fund to the Horse Racing Purse Equity Fund.
    (h)    On    July      3,     2025,    the     Comptroller    shall       order
transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer $2,000,000 from
the Horse Racing Fund to the Horse Racing Purse Equity Fund.
    (i)    On    July      3,     2026,    the     Comptroller    shall       order
transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer $2,500,000 from
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                         LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


the Horse Racing Fund to the Horse Racing Purse Equity Fund.
(Source: P.A. 103-8, eff. 7-1-23; 103-588, eff. 7-1-24; 104-2,
eff. 6-16-25; 104-185, eff. 8-15-25; revised 9-12-25.)


                         Article 65.


    Section 65-5. House Bill 228 of the 104th General Assembly
is amended, if and only if that bill becomes law, by adding
Section 99 as follows:


    (H.B. 228, 104th G.A., Sec. 99 new)
    Sec. 99. This Act (House Bill 228 of the 104th General
Assembly) takes effect on the effective date of Article 99 of
House Bill 2949 of the 104th General Assembly or July 1, 2027,
whichever is later.


                         Article 70.


    Section 70-5. If and only if House Bill 2335 of the 104th
General Assembly, as amended by Senate Amendment Nos. 3 and 4,
becomes law, then the Downstate Public Transportation Act is
amended by changing Section 2-15 as follows:


    (30 ILCS 740/2-15) (from Ch. 111 2/3, par. 675.1)
    Sec. 2-15. Residual fund balance.
    (a) At the direction of the Department, the Comptroller
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                           LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


shall order transferred and the Treasurer shall transfer all
funds   that    remain       Except       as    otherwise         provided     in   this
Section,      all    funds    that       remain      in    the     Downstate    Public
Transportation Fund or the Metro-East Public Transportation
Fund after the payment of the fourth quarterly payment to
participants         other        than      Metro-East            Transit     District
participants        and     the   last     monthly        payment      to   Metro-East
Transit participants in each fiscal year shall be transferred
to the Downstate Transit Improvement Fund for fiscal year 2026
and each fiscal year thereafter. Transfers shall be made no
later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year. However,
an   amount    the     Department         determines        to    be   necessary    for
allocation to participants for the purposes of Section 2-7 for
the first quarter of the succeeding fiscal year and an amount
equal to 2% of the total allocations to participants in the
immediately preceding fiscal year to be used for the purpose
of audit adjustments shall be retained in the Funds to be used
by the Department for those purposes. Beginning fiscal year
2010,   all     moneys        each       year   in        the     Downstate    Transit
Improvement         Fund,    held    solely       for       the    benefit     of   the
participants in the Downstate Public Transportation Fund and
shall be appropriated to the Department to make competitive
capital grants to the participants of the respective funds,
except that a portion of the total residual fund balance
remaining in the Downstate Transit Improvement Fund after the
completion of Fiscal Year 2026 and every year thereafter may
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                    LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


be used by the Department for intercity rail capital projects
for connectivity between downstate communities and Chicago,
including routes to new destinations. Beginning in Fiscal Year
2026, the Department of Transportation may issue an annual
notice      of   funding   opportunity       for   intercity    rail    capital
projects that may include, but are not limited to, station
upgrades, grade separations, and planning studies for new
destinations. The amount used from this fund for intercity
rail capital projects may not exceed $342,000,000. However,
such amount as the Department determines to be necessary for
allocation to participants for the purposes of Section 2-7 for
the   first      quarter   of   the    succeeding    fiscal    year    and    the
purpose of audit adjustments shall be retained in such Funds
to    be     used    by      the      Department    for      such     purposes.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for Fiscal Year
2027, the sum of $3,750,000, or so much of that amount as may
be necessary, may be appropriated from the Downstate Transit
Improvement Fund to the Department of Transportation to make a
grant to the Springfield Airport Authority for the purpose of
supporting daily commercial air service between Springfield
and    Chicago      O'Hare      International      Airport     in     order    to
facilitate State operations in the Capital City.
      (b)    Notwithstanding       any    other    provision    of     law,    in
addition to any other transfers that may be provided by law, on
July 1, 2011, or as soon thereafter as practical, the State
Comptroller       shall    direct      and   the   State   Treasurer      shall
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                                          LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


transfer the remaining balance from the Metro East Public
Transportation        Fund      into   the     General         Revenue     Fund.     Upon
completion       of     the      transfers,         the        Metro     East     Public
Transportation Fund is dissolved, and any future deposits due
to that Fund and any outstanding obligations or liabilities of
that Fund pass to the General Revenue Fund.
    (c) If necessary, the Department of Transportation may
notify the Comptroller of a projected deficit in the Downstate
Public Transportation Fund of the amount needed to cover the
required     statutory          reimbursement           of      eligible     operating
expenses      to        participants          in        the      Downstate        Public
Transportation Fund. If the Comptroller is notified of a
projected        deficit,       then     the       Comptroller           shall      order
transferred       and     the    Treasurer         shall        transfer     from    the
Downstate Transit Improvement Fund the amount necessary to
remedy     the     projected        deficit        in     the     Downstate       Public
Transportation Fund.
(Source: P.A. 104-457, eff. 6-1-26; 10400HB2335sam003.)


                                    Article 75.


    Section       75-5.     House      Bill    5542       of    the    104th     General
Assembly is amended, if and only if that bill becomes law, by
adding Section 99 as follows:


    (H.B. 5542, 104th G.A., Sec. 99 new)
Public Act 104-0466

HB2949 Enrolled                        LRB104 09328 BDA 19386 b


    Sec. 99. This Act (House Bill 5542 of the 104th General
Assembly) takes effect on the effective date of Article 99 of
House Bill 2949 of the 104th General Assembly.


                         Article 99.


    Section 99-95. No acceleration or delay. Where this Act
makes changes in a statute that is represented in this Act by
text that is not yet or no longer in effect (for example, a
Section represented by multiple versions), the use of that
text does not accelerate or delay the taking effect of (i) the
changes made by this Act or (ii) provisions derived from any
other Public Act.


    Section 99-99. Effective date. This Act takes effect upon
becoming law, except that:
        (1) Articles 15, 20, 25, and 30 take effect on July 1,
    2026;
        (2) Article 40 takes effect upon becoming law or on
    the effective date of Senate Bill 315 of the 104th General
    Assembly, whichever is later;
        (3) Article 45 takes effect on January 1, 2027; and
        (4) Article 50 takes effect upon becoming law or on
    the effective date of House Bill 5551 of the 104th General
    Assembly, whichever is later.
